<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="elastic-advanced">


	<title>Advanced settings and usage</title>
	<shortdesc>The Couchbase Elasticsearch plug-in is highly configurable and provides many setting
		to customize how your documents are indexed.</shortdesc>


	<conbody>



		<p>Configuration for the plug-in is specified as part of the Elasticsearch configuration file
			(usually <filepath>elasticsearch.yml</filepath>) and is currently only read when
			Elasticsearch starts.</p>
		<section>
			<title>Basic settings</title>
			<ul>
				<li><codeph>couchbase.port</codeph>—The port the plug-in will listen on. The default
					port is 9091.</li>

				<li><codeph>couchbase.username</codeph>—The username for HTTP basic authentication. The default
					username is Administrator.</li>

				<li><codeph>couchbase.password</codeph>—The password for HTTP basic authentication. No
					default password.</li>

				<li><codeph>couchbase.num_vbuckets</codeph>—The number of vBuckets that Elasticsearch
					should pretend to have. The default value is 64 vBuckets on OS&#xA0;X and 1024
					vBuckets on all other platforms). This setting must match the number of vBuckets on
					the source Couchbase cluster.</li>

				<li><codeph>couchbase.maxConcurrentRequests</codeph>—The number of concurrent requests
					that the plug-in will allow. The default is 1024 requests. If the load on the machine
					gets too high, you can lower the number of requests allowed.</li>

			</ul>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Advanced settings</title>

			<ul>

				<li><codeph>couchbase.ignoreFailures</codeph>—Enabling this flag will cause the plug-in to
					return a success status to Couchbase even if it cannot index some of the
					documents. This will prevent the XDCR replication from being stalled due to
					indexing errors in Elasticsearch, for example when a schema change breaks some
					of the ES type mappings. The default is <codeph>false</codeph>.</li>

				<li><codeph>couchbase.ignoreDeletes</codeph>—Specifying one or more index names here
					will cause the plug-in to ignore document deletion and expiration for those indexes.
					This can be used to turn Elasticsearch into a sort of searchable archive for a
					Couchbase bucket. This also means that the index will continue to grow
					indefinitely.</li>

				<li><codeph>couchbase.wrapCounters</codeph>—Enabling this flag will cause the plug-in to
					wrap integer values from Couchbase, which are not valid JSON documents, in a simple
					document before indexing them in Elasticsearch. The resulting document is in the
					format <codeph>{ "value" : &lt;value&gt; }</codeph> and is stored under the ID of the
					original value from Couchbase.</li>
				
				<li><codeph>couchbase.ignoreDotIndexes</codeph> - Enabled by default (<codeph>true</codeph>).
					Causes the plugin to completely ignore indexes/aliases whose name starts with
						"<codeph>.</codeph>", such as "<codeph>.kibana</codeph>",
						"<codeph>.marvel</codeph>", and so on.</li>		
				<li><codeph>couchbase.includeIndexes</codeph> - Specifying one or more index/alias names (as a
					comma- or semicolon-delimited string) causes the plugin to ignore the existence
					of all other indexes. For example, if you have only a few indexes replicated
					from Couchbase, there's no reason to store checkpoint metadata in all other
					indexes. Note that this setting takes precedence over
						<codeph>ignoreDotIndexes</codeph>, so if you whitelist an index or alias
					that starts with a dot, the plugin will use it.</li>		

			</ul>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Mapping Couchbase documents to Elasticsearch types</title>

			<ul>
				<li><codeph>couchbase.typeSelector</codeph>—The type selector class to use for mapping documents
					to types. <ul>
						<li>
							<codeph>org.elasticsearch.transport.couchbase.capi.DefaultTypeSelector</codeph>—Maps
							all documents to the specified type. As the name implies, this is the
							default type selector and can be omitted from the configuration file. <ul>
								<li>
									<codeph>couchbase.typeSelector.defaultDocumentType</codeph>—The
									document type to which the DefaultTypeSelector will map all
									documents. Defaults to "couchbaseDocument".</li>
								<li>
									<codeph>couchbase.typeSelector.checkpointDocumentType</codeph>—The
									document type to which replication checkpoint documents will be
									mapped. Defaults to "couchbaseCheckpoint". </li>
							</ul></li>
						<li>
							<codeph>org.elasticsearch.transport.couchbase.capi.DelimiterTypeSelector</codeph>—If
							the document ID is of the format
								<codeph>&lt;type&gt;&lt;delimiter&gt;&lt;*&gt;</codeph>, this type
							selector will map these documents to the type
								<codeph>&lt;type&gt;</codeph>, otherwise it will use the
								<codeph>DefaultTypeSelector</codeph> for the type mapping. The
							default delimiter is <codeph>:</codeph>, so for example a document with
							the ID <codeph>user:123</codeph> will be indexed under the type
								<codeph>user</codeph>. <ul>
								<li>
									<codeph>couchbase.typeSelector.documentTypeDelimiter</codeph>—Optional.
									The delimiter to use for the
										<codeph>DelimiterTypeSelector</codeph>. Default is
										<codeph>:</codeph>.  </li>
							</ul></li>
						<li>
							<codeph>org.elasticsearch.transport.couchbase.capi.GroupRegexTypeSelector</codeph>—Maps
							documents that match the specified regular expression with a capture
							group named <codeph>type</codeph>. If the document doesn't match the
							regular expression, or the regular expression doesn't define a capture
							group named <codeph>type</codeph>, the
								<codeph>DefaultTypeSelector</codeph> is used instead. <ul>
								<li>
									<codeph>couchbase.typeSelector.documentTypesRegex</codeph>—Specified
									the regular expression for mapping Couchbase document IDs to
									Elasticsearch types. Example:
										<codeph>^(?&lt;type&gt;\w+)::.+$</codeph> will map document
									IDs of the format <codeph>&lt;type&gt;::&lt;stuff&gt;</codeph>
									to the type <codeph>&lt;type&gt;</codeph>, so the ID
										<codeph>user::123</codeph> will be indexed under the type
										<codeph>user</codeph>. </li>
							</ul></li>
						<li>
							<codeph>org.elasticsearch.transport.couchbase.capi.RegexTypeSelector</codeph>—Maps
							document IDs that match the specified regular expressions to the named
							types. If the ID doesn't match any of the specified expressions,
								<codeph>DefaultTypeSeletor</codeph> is used to select the type. <ul>
								<li>
									<codeph>couchbase.typeSelector.documentTypesRegex.*</codeph>—Specifies
									a regular expression with a named type. For example,
										<codeph>couchbase.typeSelector.documentTypesRegex.users:
										^user-.+$</codeph> will map all document IDs that start with
									the string <codeph>user-</codeph> to the type
										<codeph>users</codeph>. </li>
							</ul></li>
					</ul></li>
			</ul>
		</section>



		<section>
			<title>Mapping parent-child relationships</title>

			<ul>
				<li><codeph> couchbase.parentSelector</codeph> —The parent selector class to use for mapping
					child documents to parents. Note that because of the XDCR nature, it's possible
					that the child document will be replicated before the parent, leading to
					unpredictable behavior on the Elasticsearch side. <ul>
						<li>
							<codeph>org.elasticsearch.transport.couchbase.capi.DefaultParentSelector</codeph>—Maps
							documents to parents according to a predefined map of types to field
							names. <ul>
								<li>
									<codeph>couchbase.parentSelector.documentTypeParentFields.*</codeph>—Specifies
									which document field contains the ID of the parent document for
									that particular type. For example,
										<codeph>couchbase.parentSelector.documentTypeParentFields.order:
										doc.user_id</codeph> will set the parent ID of all documents
									in the type <codeph>order</codeph> to the value of the
										<codeph>user_id</codeph> field. </li>
							</ul></li>
						<li>
							<codeph>org.elasticsearch.transport.couchbase.capi.RegexParentSelector</codeph>—Maps
							documents to parents according to a specified regular expression with
							the capture group <codeph>parent</codeph>. Optionally lets you specify
							the format for the parent document ID. <ul>
								<li><codeph>couchbase.parentSelector.documentTypesParentRegex.*</codeph>—A
									named regular expression for matching the parent document ID.
									For example, <codeph>couchbase.documentTypesParentRegex.typeA:
										^typeA::(?&lt;parent&gt;.+)</codeph> with the document ID
										<codeph>typeA::123</codeph> will use <codeph>123</codeph> as
									the parent document ID.</li>
								<li><codeph>couchbase.parentSelector.documentTypesParentFormat.*</codeph>—Specifies
									an optional format for the parent document ID matched by the
									regular expression above. Uses <codeph>&lt;parent&gt;</codeph>
									as the placeholder for the matched ID. For example,
										<codeph>couchbase.documentTypesParentFormat.typeA:
										parentType::&lt;parent&gt;</codeph> with the previous
									example will produce the parent document ID
										<codeph>parentType::123</codeph>. </li>
							</ul></li>
					</ul></li>
			</ul>




		</section>



		<section>
			<title>Specifying custom document routing</title>
			<ul>
				<li><codeph>couchbase.documentTypeRoutingFields.*</codeph>—A mapping of types to custom
					document routing paths. For example, specifying
						<codeph>couchbase.documentTypeRoutingFields.users: user_id</codeph> will use the
					field <codeph>user_id</codeph> as the custom routing path for type
						<codeph>users</codeph>.</li>
			</ul>

		</section>

		<section id="filter">
			<title>Filtering documents on the Elasticsearch side</title>

			<ul>
				<li><codeph>couchbase.keyFilter</codeph>—The document filter class to use for filtering
					documents on the plug-in side. Couchbase sends all documents through XDCR no
					matter what, and the document filter simply chooses whether to index or ignore
					certain documents according to their ID. <ul>
						<li><codeph>org.elasticsearch.transport.couchbase.capi.DefaultKeyFilter</codeph>—The
							default filter, which lets all documents through. Can be omitted from
							the configuration file.</li>
						<li><codeph>org.elasticsearch.transport.couchbase.capi.RegexKeyFilter</codeph>
							<ul>
								<li><codeph>couchbase.keyFilter.type</codeph>—<codeph>[include|exclude]</codeph> Specifies
									whether the filter will include or exclude the documents based
									on the matched regular expression. If you choose
										<codeph>include</codeph>, then only documents with IDs that
									match one of the regular expressions will be indexed. If you
									choose <codeph>exclude</codeph>, then only documents that do not
									match any of the regular expressions will be indexed. </li>
								<li><codeph>couchbase.keyFilter.keyFiltersRegex.*</codeph>—Specifies
									one or more regular expressions to match against the document ID
									before indexing them in Elasticsearch. For example,
										<codeph>couchbase.keyFilter.type: exclude</codeph> +
										<codeph>couchbase.keyFilter.keyFiltersRegex.temp:
										^temp.*$</codeph> will cause the plug-in to ignore any
									documents whose IDs start with <codeph>temp</codeph>. </li>
							</ul></li>
					</ul></li>

			</ul>


		</section>

	<!--	<section>
			<title>Understanding metadata</title>
			<p>As you get more advanced in your usage of the Couchbase Elasticsearch plug-in, it might
				be helpful for you to understand what is actually sent via the plug-in and how
				Elasticsearch uses it. When you send a JSON document to Couchbase Server to store, it
				looks similar to the following:</p>
			<codeblock>{
   "name": "Green Monsta Ale",
   "abv": 7.3,
   "ibu": 0,
   "srm": 0,
   "upc": 0,
   "type": "beer",
   "brewery_id": "wachusetts_brewing_company",
   "updated": "2010-07-22 20:00:20",
   "description": "A BIG PALE ALE with an awesome balance of Belgian malts with Fuggles and East Kent Golding hops.",
   "style": "American-Style Strong Pale Ale",
   "category": "North American Ale"
}                </codeblock>
			<p>Here we have a JSON document with all the information for a beer in our application.
				When Couchbase stores this document, it adds metadata about the document so that we now
				have JSON in Couchbase that looks like this:</p>
			<codeblock>{
    {
   "id": "wachusetts_brewing_company-green_monsta_ale",
   "rev": "1-00000005ce01e6210000000000000000",
   "expiration": 0,
   "flags": 0,
   "type": "json"
    },
    {
       "name": "Green Monsta Ale",
       "abv": 7.3,
       "ibu": 0,
       "srm": 0,
       "upc": 0,
       "type": "beer",
       "brewery_id": "wachusetts_brewing_company",
       "updated": "2010-07-22 20:00:20",
       "description": "A BIG PALE ALE with an awsome balance of Belgian malts with Fuggles and East Kent Golding hops.",
       "style": "American-Style Strong Pale Ale",
       "category": "North American Ale"
    }
}</codeblock>
			<p>The metadata that Couchbase Server stores with our beer document contains the key for
				the document, an internal revision number, expiration, flags and the type of document.
				When Couchbase Server replicates data to Elasticsearch via the plug-in, it sends this
				entire JSON including the metadata. Elasticsearch will then index the document and will
				store the following JSON with document metadata:</p>
			<codeblock>{
  "id": "wachusetts_brewing_company-green_monsta_ale",
  "rev": "1-00000005ce01e6210000000000000000",
  "expiration": 0,
  "flags": 0,
  "type": "json"
}</codeblock>
			<p>And finally when you query Elasticsearch and get a result set, it will contain the
				document metadata only:</p>

			<codeblock>{
    took: 22
    timed_out: false
    _shards: {
    total: 5
    successful: 5
    failed: 0
},
    hits: {
    total: 1
    max_score: 0.18642133
    hits: [
        {
        _index: beer-sample
        _type: couchbaseDocument
        _id: wachusetts_brewing_company-green_monsta_ale
        _score: 0.18642133
            _source: {
                meta: {
                    id: wachusetts_brewing_company-green_monsta_ale
                    rev: 1-00000005ce01e6210000000000000000
                    flags: 0
                    expiration: 0
                    }
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}</codeblock>
		</section> -->

	</conbody>

</concept>
