<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
  
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1515">

<title>
	Installation and Configuration
</title>

<shortdesc>
	A Couchbase-Elasticsearch data-replication system consists of three principal
	components: a <i>Couchbase Server-cluster</i> of one or more nodes; an <i>Elasticsearch 
	cluster</i> of one or more nodes; and the <i>Elasticsearch Transport Plug-in</i>, installed 
	in the Elasticsearch environment. This section provides a step-by-step procedure, 
	whereby the three components can be installed, configured, and run.
</shortdesc>

<body>
		
<section>
	
<title>
	Installation Prerequisites
</title>
	
<p>
	The installation-procedure provided below involves the creation of a test environment, by means of <i>Oracle VirtualBox</i>; 
	requiring <i>Ubuntu 14</i> as operating system. For details on setting up VirtualBox on your development-machine, and deploying 
	a Ubuntu 14 image on it, see <xref href="http://virtualbox.org" scope="external" format="html"/>. 
	The instructions in this section assume that you have completed the necessary 
	procedures, and have supervisor-privileges in the resulting virtual environment. You will install and run Elasticsearch, 
	the Elasticsearch Plug-in, and Couchbase Server in this environment: you should thus ensure that the virtual machine 
	is provisioned with sufficient disk and memory resources; by means of the <uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol> panel, within the Oracle VM VirtualBox 
	Manager.
</p>
	
<p>
	Within the Ubuntu 14 environment, you will use both the terminal and the browser to perform installation and configuration. 
	Note that within the terminal window, you may need to use supervisor-privileges, by means of the 
	<codeph>sudo</codeph> command: this command, 
	however, is not reproduced in the examples in this document; you must prepend your console-input with it, as appropriate.
</p>
	
</section>
	
<section>

<title>
	Install and Configure Couchbase Server
</title>

<p>
	Within the virtual environment you have created, using the browser, read and follow the installation and
	configuration instructions provided at <xref href="../../install/install-intro.dita" scope="local" format="dita" />. 
	During configuration, note that for current test-purposes:
</p>
	
<ul>
	<li>
		You need only activate the <b>Data</b> service. Other services are not required.
	
		<p>
			<!--Vertical space -->
		</p>
	
	</li>
	
	<li>
		You require a single bucket: which is the <i>beer-sample</i> bucket. This bucket will be used to provide data to
		Elasticsearch, during the test.
	
		<p>
			<!--Vertical space -->
		</p>
	
	</li>
</ul>
	
<p>
	Start Couchbase Server, using the instructions provided at <xref href="../../install/startup-shutdown.dita" scope="local" format="dita" />.
</p>
</section>
	
<section>
<title>Install Oracle Java</title>

<p>
	<i>Oracle</i> java (rather than the standard Ubuntu-available version) is required for both Elasticsearch and the
	plug-in. Ensure Oracle Java is added to your system, by bringing up a terminal window, and proceeding as follows:
</p>
	
<ol>
	<li>Add the required Oracle Java repository:
		
		<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ apt-add-repository ppa:webupd8team/java</codeblock>
		
	</li>
	
	<li>Install Oracle Java, and establish it as the default Java for the virtual machine:
		
		<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ apt-get update
$ apt-get install oracle-java8-installer
$ apt install oracle-java8-set-default</codeblock>
		
	<p>
		During this process, when requested, accept the license-terms by selecting <b>Ok</b> or <b>Yes</b>.
	</p>
	
	<p>
		Once installation is complete, verify that Java has been successfully installed; by checking
		its version, with <codeph>java -version</codeph>; and its location, with <codeph>which java</codeph>.
	</p>
	
	</li>
	
</ol>
</section>
	
<section>
	<title>
		Install Elasticsearch 2.4.0
	</title>

<ol>
	<li>Download the Elasticsearch 2.4.0 package for Ubuntu:
	
		<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ wget https://download.elastic.co/elasticsearch/\
> elasticsearch/elasticsearch-2.4.0.deb</codeblock>
	
	</li>
	
	<li>Install the package:

		<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ dpkg -i elasticsearch-2.4.0.deb</codeblock>
	
	</li>
</ol>
	
</section>
	
<section>
	
<title>Install the Elasticsearch Plug-in</title>
	
<ol>
	
	<li>Navigate the the Elasticsearch install directory:
	
		<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ cd /usr/share/elasticsearch</codeblock>
		
	</li>
	
	<li>Download and install the plug-in package:
		
		<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ bin/plugin install https://github.com/couchbaselabs/\
> elasticsearch-transport-couchbase/releases/download/2.2.4.0-update1/\
> elasticsearch-transport-couchbase-2.2.4.0-update1.zip</codeblock>
		
		<p>
			Respond to the installation-prompts as appropriate.
		</p>
		
		<p>
			When installation is successful, the message <codeph>Installed transport-couchbase
			into /usr/share/elasticsearch/plugins/transport/couchbase</codeph> is displayed.
		</p>
	
	</li>
	
</ol>
</section>
	
<section>
	<title>
		Configure and Start Elasticsearch
	</title>
	
<ol>
	<li>
		In preparation for configuration-file editing, install your preferred
		console-based text-editor into the virtual machine environment.
		<p>
			
		</p>
		
		<p>
			For example, download <i>emacs</i>, using the following command; then,
			as installation proceeds, respond
			to system-prompts as appropriate.
			
			<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ apt-get install emacs</codeblock>
		</p>
	</li>
	
	<li>
		Using the editor, bring up the configuration file for Elasticsearch:
		
		<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">emacs /etc/elasticsearch/elasticsearch.yml</codeblock>
		
		<p>
			Add the following to the end of the file, specifying an appropriate administrator-username and password
			for accessing Elasticsearch:
		</p>
		
		<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">couchbase.password: [<i>password</i>]
couchbase.username: [<i>username</i>]
couchbase.maxConcurrentRequests: 1024</codeblock>
		
		<p>
			Then save the file, and exit back to the command-prompt.
		</p>
	
	</li>
	
	<li>
		Install the Elasticsearch web-based user-interface:
		
		<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ bin/plugin install mobz/elasticsearch-head</codeblock>
		
	</li>
	
	<li>
		Start Elasticsearch:
		
		<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ /etc/init.d/elasticsearch start</codeblock>
		
	</li>
	
	<li>
		Configure an Elasticsearch index-template:
		
		<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ curl -XPUT http://localhost:9200/_template/couchbase -d \
> @plugins/transport-couchbase/couchbase_template.json</codeblock>
		
		<p>
			When successful, the configuration-routine provides the following response:
			<codeph>{"acknowledged":true}</codeph>.
		</p>
	</li>
	
	<li>
		Instantiate an elasticsearch index to be applied by Elasticsearch to data from
		a particular Couchbase bucket (in this case, <i>beer-sample</i>, which you
		previously used in your set-up of Couchbase Server):
		
		<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ curl -XPUT http://localhost:9200/beer-sample</codeblock>
		
		<p>
			When index-creation is successful, a further <codeph>{"acknowledged":true}</codeph> response
			is provided.
		</p>
	</li>
	
</ol>
	
<p>
	You have now completed all basic installation and configuration requirements for
	Elasticsearch, the Elasticsearch Plug-in, and Couchbase Server. (Note that more
	advanced configuration options are described later in this document.)
</p>
	
</section>
	
	<section>
		<title>
			Installing on Other Platforms
		</title>
		
		<p>
			The procedures and code-examples that you will encounter in the next section, 
			<xref href="./getting-started.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Getting Started</xref>, 
			all assume that you have installed and configured Elasticsearch, Couchbase Server, and
			the Elasticsearch Plug-in precisely as described above.
		</p>
		
		<p>
			When you have completed Getting Started, and the other sections of this document,
			and have thus become more familiar with the plug-in and its capability, you will likely
			wish to perform installation on additional platforms, in preparation for or as part of
			a production-deployment.
		</p>
		
		<p>
			Full details on the installation-procedures for Couchbase Server are described 
			<xref href="https://developer.couchbase.com/documentation/server/current/install/install-intro.html" scope="external" format="html">here</xref>. 
			Those for Elasticsearch, 
			<xref href="https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/_installation.html" scope="external" format="html">here</xref>. 
			Installing and configuring the plug-in on other platforms
			is virtually the same as described here, for Ubuntu 14. Note that:
		</p>
		
		<ul>
			<li>
				The plug-in should be installed in the Elasticsearch install directory, with
				<codeph>bin/plugin install</codeph> ...etc.
				
				<p>
					<!-- Vertical space -->
				</p>
			</li>
			
			<li>
				Certain commands differ across platforms. For example, on CentOS, to install
				the Elasticsearch package use <codeph>yum</codeph> (rather than <codeph>dpkg</codeph>, 
				as used on Ubuntu).
				
				<p>
					<!-- Vertical space -->
				</p>
			</li>
			
			<li>
				For MacOS, to use wget: first, install <codeph>brew</codeph>; then, install <codeph>wget</codeph> with
				<codeph>brew install wget</codeph>.
				
				<p>
					<!-- Vertical space -->
				</p>
			</li>
			
		</ul>
		
	</section>
	
	<section>
		<title>
			Elasticsearch 2.1.1
		</title>
		
		<p>
			Elasticsearch 2.1.1 requires a special, compatible version of the plug-in. This can be obtained
			<xref href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/elasticsearch-transport-couchbase/releases/download/v2.2.1.2/elasticsearch-transport-couchbase-2.2.1.2.zip" scope="external" format="html">here</xref>.
		</p>
		
		<p>
			Use of this version of the plug-in requires that Java security-policy permissions be 
			appropriately set. See <xref href="./advanced-settings.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Advanced Settings</xref>.
		</p>
		
	</section>
	
	<section>
		<title>
			Versioning and Compatibility
		</title>
		
		<p>
			The following table shows the supported version-combinations for the three principal components:
		</p>
		
		<table>
			<title>Version Compatibility</title>
			<tgroup cols="3">
				<colspec colname="1" colwidth="130"/>
				<colspec colname="2" colwidth="130"/>
				<colspec colname="3" colwidth="130"/>

				<thead>
					<row>
						<entry>Plug-in</entry>
						<entry>Couchbase</entry>
						<entry>Elasticsearch</entry>
					</row>
				</thead>
				
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry>master</entry>
						<entry>2.5.x to 4.x</entry>
						<entry>2.4.0</entry>
					</row>
					
					<row>
						<entry>2.4.0.0-alpha2</entry>
						<entry>2.5.x to 4.x</entry>
						<entry>5.0.0.-alpha2</entry>
					</row>
					
					<row>
						<entry>2.2.x.y</entry>
						<entry>2.5.x to 4.x</entry>
						<entry>2.x.y</entry>
					</row>
					
					<row>
						<entry>2.1</entry>
						<entry>2.5.x to 4.x</entry>
						<entry>1.3.0 to 1.7.x</entry>
					</row>
					
					<row>
						<entry>2.0</entry>
						<entry>3.x, 2.5.x</entry>
						<entry>1.3.0</entry>
					</row>
					
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table>
		
	</section>
	
</body>
	
</topic>
