<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_gym_zx1_2t">
  <title>Release Notes for Couchbase Server 4.1</title>
  <body>
    <section><title>Known issues</title> <p>The following table lists the known issues in the 4.1 release:</p><p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_n1b_rv1_2t1">
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2" colwidth="4.56*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry><b>Issue</b></entry>
                <entry><b>Description</b></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17004" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-17004</xref></entry>
                <entry><b>Summary</b>: When using queries backed by GSI to perform singleton lookups
                  and range scans, occasional processing of index compaction can incur long pauses
                  affecting concurrent query throughput.</entry>
              </row> 
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16939" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16939</xref></entry>
                <entry><b>Summary</b>: Prepared encoded plan for N1QL statements with system catalog queries in WHERE clause may not be recognized.
                  <p><b>Workaround</b>: To avoid this issue, do not execute certain queries with prepared statements (known as `.adhoc(false)` or similar in SDK APIs). Instead, use regular queries with system catalog queries.</p></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16935" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16935</xref></entry>
                <entry><b>Summary</b>: Kernel futex wait call can cause ForestDB to hang during initial index build.
                  <p><b>Workaround</b>: If you are running RHEL 6x or CentOS 6.x, we highly recommend upgrading to the latest kernel (2.6.32-504.16.2 or higher). With Centos 7.1, you should upgrade to Linux kernel 3.18 at least. </p></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16902" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16902</xref></entry>
                <entry><b>Summary</b>: Latency on queries using the <parmname>request_plus</parmname> option on scan consistency may be abnormally high during index compaction, leading to application timeouts of queries.  The response times may occasionally be in the 10s of seconds or the query may return an error due to timeout. The default timeout interval is 75 seconds.
                  <p><b>Workaround</b>:</p></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16831" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16831</xref></entry>
                <entry><b>Summary</b>: When creating a global secondary index (GSI), the interactive query shell <apiname>cbq</apiname>, can timeout if the result is not returned within 2 minutes. Although the index is successfully created, the error message is unclear.
                  <p><b>Workaround</b>:Create the index with <parmname>defer_build:true</parmname>, and then build the index separately.
                  </p></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16618" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16618</xref></entry>
                <entry><b>Summary</b>: View queries with reduce and group set to true, and parameterized by a list of keys that are not in ascending order, can produce results that are not properly reduced.
                  <p><b>Workaround</b>: Ensure that the list of keys passed to the query is in ascending order. </p></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16115" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16115</xref></entry>
                <entry><b>Summary</b>: When the indexer settings are changed, the connections from
                  the query shell <cmdname>cbq</cmdname> can sometimes become stale causing an EOF
                  errors. <p><b>Workaround</b>: Restart the query engine before executing the query
                    again.</p></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-15968" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-15968</xref></entry>
                <entry><b>Summary</b>: Replication over SSL encryption from a source 4.0 cluster to
                  a destination 2.5.x cluster may result in slow performance (rate of data
                  transfer). <p><b>Workaround</b>: We recommend upgrading the destination cluster to
                    3.x version. </p></entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </p></section>
    <section><title>Fixed issues</title>
      <p>Here are some of the notable fixes in the 4.1 release:</p> 
       <p> <table frame="all"
          rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_n1b_rv1_2t">
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2" colwidth="4.56*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry><b>Issue</b></entry>
                <entry><b>Description</b></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16689" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16689</xref></entry>
                <entry>Memcached process crashed if it ran out of file descriptors during log rotation.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16528" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16528</xref></entry>
                <entry>If delta-node recovery was started after updating the bucket configuration, but before the bucket was loaded into memcached, a rebalance operation sometimes ejected the node from the cluster and the cluster vBucket map still contained the node</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16435" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-16435</xref></entry>
                <entry>Couchbase Server failed to start on OS X 10.11 (El Capitan).</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16421" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16421</xref></entry>
                <entry>If a getMeta was issued at the destination cluster during XDCR followed by a GET request by the client, the background fetch operation for the item did not complete and caused a large number of disk reads and client side timeouts.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16389" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16389</xref></entry>
                <entry>When deletion of a large bucket happened in the background, rebalance was disabled, and the status of the ongoing background task was shown in the UI.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16385" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16385</xref></entry>
                <entry>Querying a view with a reduce function based on a subset of partitions resulted in a massive memory usage.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16357" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16357</xref></entry>
                <entry>If a vBucket state changed from active to replica while performing
                  compaction, the race condition between the compaction thread and memcached thread
                  sometimes caused an assertion and triggered a crash.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16244" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-16244</xref></entry>
                <entry>Running the Elasticsearch connector sometimes resulted in high CPU
                  usage.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16159" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16159</xref></entry>
                <entry>DCP consumer would consistently take 6 seconds to acknowledge a 20Mb mutation. </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16125" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16125</xref></entry>
                <entry>Memcached would sometimes hang during shutdown.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16067" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-16067</xref></entry>
                <entry>On a Windows system, the XDCR remote cluster reference was not updated after
                  a node was removed from the cluster.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16013" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16013</xref></entry>
                <entry>XDCR based on DCP consumed a large amount of RAM with large mutations.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-15876" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-15876</xref></entry>
                <entry>When using XDCR with SSL, replication to an older cluster failed after an
                  online upgrade to 4.0 and an error message that the pipeline failed to start was
                  received. </entry></row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-13948" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-13948</xref></entry>
                <entry>The mapping phase of the view MapReduce operation took a lot of memory if lots of key-value pairs were emitted per document.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table></p>
      <p>For the complete list of issues fixed in 4.1 release, see the following <xref
          href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-16887?jql=project%20%3D%20MB%20AND%20issuetype%20%3D%20Bug%20AND%20resolution%20%3D%20Fixed%20AND%20fixVersion%20%3D%204.1.0"
          format="html" scope="external">JIRA query</xref>.</p>
      </section>
  </body>
</topic>
