<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_gym_zx1_2t">
  <title>Release notes for 4.1</title>
  
   <shortdesc>Couchbase Server release 4.1 extends Couchbase lead as the most performant and
    scalable NoSQL database for mission critical enterprise applications.</shortdesc>
    <body>
      
   <section><title>Release Notes for 4.1.1</title><p>Couchbase Server 4.1.1, released in May 2016,
        is a first maintenance release for Couchbase Server 4.1. It further fortifies Couchbase
        Server 4.1.0 and includes some critical bug fixes.</p><p><b>Fixed issues in 4.1.1</b>
      </p>Here are the notable fixes in the 4.1.1 release:<table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col3" colwidth="4.05*"/>
          <thead>
            <row rowsep="1">
              <entry>Issue</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-19093" scope="external"
                  format="html">MB-19093</xref></entry>
              <entry>Data Service (memcached) can lock up when replica indexes for Views are enabled.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-18794" scope="external"
                  format="html">MB-18794</xref></entry>
              <entry>XDCR replication can stop working when nodes are rebalanced out of the target cluster.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-18651" scope="external"
                  format="html">MB-18651</xref></entry>
              <entry>Indexer service can pick up a wrong index file after being restarted during compaction, causing the index to have partial data.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-18476" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-18476</xref></entry>
              <entry>Data Service (memcached)  on windows can crash when failing to write to disk.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-18251" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-18251</xref></entry>
              <entry>When using primary indexes on Windows, the Query service does not release connection to the data service.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-18133" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-18133</xref></entry>
              <entry>XDCR upgrade process can fail when upgrading from pre-4.X Couchbase Server versions when a remote cluster is unreachable.</entry></row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-18018" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-18018</xref></entry>
              <entry>Improvement: New private setting to block TLS version 1.1 and lower for SSL.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17815" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-17815</xref></entry>
              <entry>Data service (memcached) can count operations twice when the bucket is using full eviction mode, and the operation has to go to disk.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17758" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-17758</xref></entry>
              <entry>XDCR does not recover in some cases when there is a network partition between target and source clusters.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17517" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-17517</xref></entry>
              <entry>When an invalid CAS is discovered, one of the following situations can occur:
                <ul>
                  <li>The Data service (memcached) will crash when arithmetic operations operate on an invalid CAS.</li>
                  <li>CAS operation will  incorrect work when a CAS mismatch should have been generated.</li>
                </ul>
                
                
                An invalid CAS can only be created when the cluster has been upgraded from Couchbase Server 2.X, and the locks operations have been used.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17506" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-17506</xref></entry>
              <entry>Improvement: New private setting is needed that allows disabling the cluster map being included in a Not My VBucket response from the server to the client. The above situation might in some cases reduce network bandwidth between clients and the cluster during a rebalance.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17481" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-17481</xref></entry>
              <entry>XDCR uses more network bandwidth than expected due to stats collection.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17341" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-17341</xref></entry>
              <entry>Data Service (memcached) can crash when the Cluster Manager incorrectly sets up the DCP streams to dead vBuckets.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17297" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-17297</xref></entry>
              <entry>XDCR does not handle incomplete HTTP response causing replication to  fail. This only affects XDCR to Elasticsearch. </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17279" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-17279</xref></entry>
              <entry>Data service (memcached) can crash when a race condition is triggered by rebalancing that was abruptly terminated.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17231" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-17231</xref></entry>
              <entry>Data service (memcached): Increment/decrement operation will hang when used on buckets with full eviction mode.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17174" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-17174</xref></entry>
              <entry><codeph>Cbcollect_info</codeph> would take a lot space and a long time to run on clusters with a large amount of data.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17148" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-17148</xref></entry>
              <entry>Query Service Count(*) with USE KEYS returned the incorrect results.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17088" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-17088</xref></entry>
              <entry>Data service (memcached): Stats can be incorrect because of an integer underflow.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17024" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-17024</xref></entry>
              <entry>Improvement: Data Service (memcached) has better logging around bucket deletion .</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17009" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-17009</xref></entry>
              <entry>Index service’s initial Global Secondary Index builds could hang with larger data sets.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16949" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-16949</xref></entry>
              <entry>Data service (memcached): A small memory leak was caused by DCP backfill manager.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16915" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-16915</xref></entry>
              <entry>Data service (memcached) crash caused by a race condition when a DCP producer is closed while a backfill task is running. This can happen when rebalancing is terminated or when XDCR connections are terminated.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16910" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-16910</xref></entry>
              <entry><codeph>Memcached.log</codeph> can contain an unexpectedly large number of “warmup is complete” messages after the warmup.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16836" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-16836</xref></entry>
              <entry>Data service (memcached) <cmdname>cbstats reset</cmdname> command does not reset <codeph>ep_bg_fetched</codeph> stat.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16656" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-16656</xref></entry>
              <entry>Rebalancing can fail when replica indexes are enabled on Views as the Data service is returning the incorrect high sequence number to the  View engine.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16632" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-16632</xref></entry>
              <entry>Improvement: Reduced lock contention inside the Data service in some cases by reducing CRUD operation latency.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table><p><b>Known issues in 4.1.1</b>
      </p><p>The following are the known issues:</p><table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col3" colwidth="4.05*"/>
          <thead>
            <row rowsep="1">
              <entry>Issue</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-18564" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-18564</xref></entry>
              <entry><b>Summary:</b> <codeph>cbbackupwrapper</codeph> on Windows requires that the file path of the cbbackup process has no spaces.
                <p><b>Workaround:</b>Copy <codeph>cbbackup.exe</codeph> into a path with no spaces ( such as <filepath>c:\couchbase </filepath>) 
                </p></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16831" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-16831</xref></entry>
              <entry><b>Summary:</b>When creating a Global Secondary Index (GSI), the interactive query shell cbq can timeout if the result is not returned within 2 minutes. Although the index is successfully created, the error message is unclear.
                <p><b>Workaround:</b>Create the index with <codeph>defer_build:true</codeph>, and then build the index separately. </p></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16618" scope="external"
                format="html">MB-16618</xref></entry>
              <entry><b>Summary:</b>View queries with the options reduce and group set to true when parameterized by a list of keys that are not in ascending order can produce results that are not properly reduced.
                <p><b>Workaround:</b> Ensure that the list of keys passed to the query is in ascending order.
                </p></entry>
            </row>
         
           
           
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table></section>
      <section><title>Release  Notes for 4.1</title> 
   <p><b>Known Issues </b></p> 
        <p>The following table lists the known issues in the 4.1 release:</p><p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_n1b_rv1_2t1">
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2" colwidth="4.56*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry><b>Issue</b></entry>
                <entry><b>Description</b></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17004" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-17004</xref></entry>
                <entry><b>Summary</b>: When using queries backed by GSI to perform singleton lookups
                  and range scans, occasional processing of index compaction can incur long pauses
                  affecting concurrent query throughput.</entry>
              </row> 
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16939" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16939</xref></entry>
                <entry><b>Summary</b>: Prepared encoded plan for N1QL statements with system catalog queries in WHERE clause may not be recognized.
                  <p><b>Workaround</b>: To avoid this issue, do not execute certain queries with prepared statements (known as `.adhoc(false)` or similar in SDK APIs). Instead, use regular queries with system catalog queries.</p></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16935" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16935</xref></entry>
                <entry><b>Summary</b>: Kernel futex wait call can cause ForestDB to hang during initial index build.
                  <p><b>Workaround</b>: If you are running RHEL 6x or CentOS 6.x, we highly recommend upgrading to the latest kernel (2.6.32-504.16.2 or higher). With Centos 7.1, you should upgrade to Linux kernel 3.18 at least. </p></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16902" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16902</xref></entry>
                <entry><b>Summary</b>: Latency on queries using the <parmname>request_plus</parmname> option on scan consistency may be abnormally high during index compaction, leading to application timeouts of queries.  The response times may occasionally be in the 10s of seconds or the query may return an error due to timeout. The default timeout interval is 75 seconds.
                  <p><b>Workaround</b>:</p></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16831" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16831</xref></entry>
                <entry><b>Summary</b>: When creating a global secondary index (GSI), the interactive query shell <apiname>cbq</apiname>, can timeout if the result is not returned within 2 minutes. Although the index is successfully created, the error message is unclear.
                  <p><b>Workaround</b>:Create the index with <parmname>defer_build:true</parmname>, and then build the index separately.
                  </p></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16618" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16618</xref></entry>
                <entry><b>Summary</b>: View queries with reduce and group set to true, and parameterized by a list of keys that are not in ascending order, can produce results that are not properly reduced.
                  <p><b>Workaround</b>: Ensure that the list of keys passed to the query is in ascending order. </p></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16115" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16115</xref></entry>
                <entry><b>Summary</b>: When the indexer settings are changed, the connections from
                  the query shell <cmdname>cbq</cmdname> can sometimes become stale causing an EOF
                  errors. <p><b>Workaround</b>: Restart the query engine before executing the query
                    again.</p></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-15968" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-15968</xref></entry>
                <entry><b>Summary</b>: Replication over SSL encryption from a source 4.0 cluster to
                  a destination 2.5.x cluster may result in slow performance (rate of data
                  transfer). <p><b>Workaround</b>: We recommend upgrading the destination cluster to
                    3.x version. </p></entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        </p>
   <p><b>Fixed issues</b></p>
      <p>Here are some of the notable fixes in the 4.1 release:</p> 
       <p> <table frame="all"
          rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_n1b_rv1_2t">
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2" colwidth="4.56*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry><b>Issue</b></entry>
                <entry><b>Description</b></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16689" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16689</xref></entry>
                <entry>Memcached process crashed if it ran out of file descriptors during log rotation.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16528" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16528</xref></entry>
                <entry>If delta-node recovery was started after updating the bucket configuration, but before the bucket was loaded into memcached, a rebalance operation sometimes ejected the node from the cluster and the cluster vBucket map still contained the node</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16435" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-16435</xref></entry>
                <entry>Couchbase Server failed to start on OS X 10.11 (El Capitan).</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16421" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16421</xref></entry>
                <entry>If a getMeta was issued at the destination cluster during XDCR followed by a GET request by the client, the background fetch operation for the item did not complete and caused a large number of disk reads and client side timeouts.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16389" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16389</xref></entry>
                <entry>When deletion of a large bucket happened in the background, rebalance was disabled, and the status of the ongoing background task was shown in the UI.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16385" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16385</xref></entry>
                <entry>Querying a view with a reduce function based on a subset of partitions resulted in a massive memory usage.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16357" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16357</xref></entry>
                <entry>If a vBucket state changed from active to replica while performing
                  compaction, the race condition between the compaction thread and memcached thread
                  sometimes caused an assertion and triggered a crash.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16244" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-16244</xref></entry>
                <entry>Running the Elasticsearch connector sometimes resulted in high CPU
                  usage.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16159" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16159</xref></entry>
                <entry>DCP consumer would consistently take 6 seconds to acknowledge a 20Mb mutation. </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16125" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16125</xref></entry>
                <entry>Memcached would sometimes hang during shutdown.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16067" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-16067</xref></entry>
                <entry>On a Windows system, the XDCR remote cluster reference was not updated after
                  a node was removed from the cluster.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16013" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16013</xref></entry>
                <entry>XDCR based on DCP consumed a large amount of RAM with large mutations.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-15876" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-15876</xref></entry>
                <entry>When using XDCR with SSL, replication to an older cluster failed after an
                  online upgrade to 4.0 and an error message that the pipeline failed to start was
                  received. </entry></row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-13948" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-13948</xref></entry>
                <entry>The mapping phase of the view MapReduce operation took a lot of memory if lots of key-value pairs were emitted per document.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table></p>
      <p>For the complete list of issues fixed in 4.1 release, see the following <xref
          href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-16887?jql=project%20%3D%20MB%20AND%20issuetype%20%3D%20Bug%20AND%20resolution%20%3D%20Fixed%20AND%20fixVersion%20%3D%204.1.0"
          format="html" scope="external">JIRA query</xref>.</p>
      </section>
  </body>
</topic>
