<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_gbk_tyh_t5">
  <title>Release Notes</title>
  <body>
    <p>Couchbase Server 5.0 Beta delivers exciting capabilities for cross datacenter replication,
      security, query, tools, and application development. Take a look at <xref
        href="../introduction/whats-new.dita">What's new</xref> for a list of new features and
      improvements that are available in this release. </p>
    <note type="attention">Couchbase Server 5.0 is still under active development, which means that
      it may change significantly before the final GA release. The <i>Beta 2</i> labeling implies
      that while the core features of the software have been implemented, the product might still
      contain some rough edges and bugs. <p>Couchbase Server 5.0 Beta 2 is not supported in
        production, and we recommend that you use it in a non-production environment.</p></note>
    <section id="latest-changes"><title>Latest Updates: July 18, 2017</title>
      <p>As we move closer to the GA release of the product, Couchbase Server 5.0 Beta 2 brings the
        following updates: <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Upgrade</dt>
            <dd>
              <ol>
                <li>With the Beta 2 release, you can consider to upgrade from a previous version of
                  Couchbase Server (4.x) to 5.0. However, we do not support 5.0 in production yet,
                  and we recommend that you experiment with upgrade in a non-production environment. <ul>
                    <li>If you are using Couchbase Server 3.1.x, 4.0.0, 4.1.x, 4.5.x, or 4.6.x
                      Enterprise Editions , then you can directly upgrade to 5.0 Beta 2 in
                      non-production using offline / online upgrade options.</li>
                    <li>If you are using Couchbase Server 5.0 beta 1, then you should consider doing
                      a fresh install of the product.</li>
                    <li>If you are on the Windows platform, in-place upgrades from pre-5.0 versions
                      to 5.0 is not supported because of change in the installer (.exe to .msi). To
                      upgrade your pre-5.0 configurations to 5.0, use rolling upgrade in this
                      scenario.</li>
                  </ul></li>
                <li>N1QL Application Continuity: In 5.0 Beta 1 release, N1QL introduced multiple
                  performance enhancements enabled by a new internal protocol between Query and
                  Index services. While upgrading large Couchbase cluster deployments, the cluster
                  may be in a state where different Couchbase services are running on different
                  versions. In such scenarios, this feature ensures seamless continuity for N1QL
                  queries and applications irrespective of whether the query and indexing services
                  are running a 4.x or 5.0 version. The N1QL clients can avail the 5.0 features and
                  performance only when the issued query is processed by 5.0 query and indexing
                  services.</li>
              </ol>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>New Features</dt>
            <dd>
              <ul>
                <li>X.509 Certificate Authentication offers a way of authenticating Java
                  applications to Couchbase using a user-specified X.509 certificate. See <xref
                    href="../security/security-certs-auth.dita#topic_pcr_mvh_p1b"/> for
                  details.</li>
                <li>Plasma presents a highly scalable and performant key-value storage engine for
                  secondary indexes. See <xref
                    href="../architecture/index-storage.dita#topic_ip2_cdf_p1b"/> for details.</li>
                <li>CURL() white listing: This feature makes access to the N1QL function CURL() more
                  secure and configurable. In beta2 release, administrators can specify a whitelist
                  of REST endpoints which can be accessed by the CURL function. For more
                  information, see <xref
                    href="../n1ql/n1ql-language-reference/curl.dita#topic_8_8/curl-whitelisting"
                    >Creating a Whitelist for CURL() Access</xref>.</li>
                <li>The N1QL RBAC statements GRANT ROLE and REVOKE ROLE are renamed to GRANT and
                  REVOKE respectively, and their syntax has been changed to use the ON clause. </li>
              </ul>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
    </section>
    <section id="support-platform">
      <title>New Supported Platforms</title>
      <p>This release also adds support for Ubuntu 16.04, SUSE Linux 12, Oracle Linux 7, and
        Microsoft Windows 2016. For more information, see <xref
          href="../install/install-platforms.dita#topic1634"/>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="change-behavior">
      <title>Changes in Behavior</title>
      <p>Here are the behavior changes in the product, compared to the previous (4.6.x) release.</p>
      <p>
        <ul id="ul_dhx_b15_xz">
          <li>Newly created buckets in 5.0 (including sample buckets) do not have any passwords
            associated with them. To access a bucket, a user must be created with appropriate roles
            to access using RBAC. </li>
          <li>The TAP protocol which was previously deprecated, is now removed. TAP is an internal
            protocol that streams information about data changes between cluster nodes. TAP is
            replaced with a new protocol called Database Change Protocol (<xref
              href="../architecture/high-availability-replication-architecture.dita#concept_hj1_njj_vs"
              >DCP</xref>).</li>
          <li>Port based buckets can only be created now through the bucket CLI command. Use the
              <cmdname>couchbase-cli bucket-create</cmdname> command to create a port based bucket.
              <note type="remember">Server-side moxi which drives port based bucket creation has
              been deprecated. Consider using client-side moxi instead.</note></li>
          <li>For Windows, <filepath>.exe</filepath> installers which were previously deprecated are
            now removed and replaced with industry-standard MSI installer files. Consequently, any
            upgrade for the Windows platform from pre-5.0 version to 5.0 will need to be done in a
            rolling upgrade fashion.</li>
          <li>Re-designed Couchbase Web Console.</li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="limitations">
      <title>Known Product Limitations</title>
      <p>This section lists some of the limitations in different areas across the product:</p>
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_wbm_p3s_dz">
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.66*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Area</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>Powerful Query, Indexing, and Search</entry>
              <entry>
                <ul id="ul_okg_4p5_xz">
                  <li><b>Index Replicas Placement</b><p dir="ltr">When deciding the index nodes to
                      place index replicas, the system takes into account to not place replicas onto
                      the same node, and to distribute the replicas across as many server groups as
                      possible. It then chooses the nodes the have the fewest number of indexes to
                      place the replicas. In the future, we will improve the replica placement
                      algorithm to better optimize the memory, CPU, and disk usage across the index
                      nodes.</p></li>
                  <li>
                    <b>Index Rebalance</b>
                    <p dir="ltr">When adding new indexer nodes to a cluster to increase the capacity
                      for indexes, the system will not move existing indexes onto the new nodes. To
                      rebalance indexes from existing nodes to the new nodes, user needs to eject
                      the existing nodes and add the new nodes. The system will then move indexes
                      from the ejected nodes to the new nodes while balancing resource utilization.
                      This is known as swap rebalance.</p><p dir="ltr">Rebalance will not take into
                      consideration any explicit index placement specified when an index was
                      created. A user cannot perform create/drop/build index during index
                      rebalance.</p></li>
                  <li>
                    <b>Online Index Upgrade</b>
                    <p dir="ltr">To perform online upgrade from version 4.x, you need to make sure
                      all indexes on an index have at least one equivalent index (index with same
                      definition) on other nodes. One then fails-over the index node, upgrades the
                      node to version 5.0, and then adds the node back to the cluster. While the
                      node is failed-over, the equivalent indexes on other nodes will be leveraged
                      for queries.</p><p dir="ltr">Once the system has been upgraded to 5.0, you can
                      use swap rebalance to perform online upgrade to future versions.</p></li>
                </ul>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry morerows="1">Upgrade</entry>
              <entry>
                <p>If you are using GSI indexes with a previous GA release of Couchbase (such as
                  4.x) or Couchbase 5.0 Beta 1, we suggest that you drop the older index definitions
                  and recreate them using 5.0 Beta 2 with the newly introduced storage engine for
                  GSI. </p>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>We’ve replaced the Windows <filepath>.exe</filepath> installers with
                industry-standard MSI installer files in this release. Consequently, only rolling
                upgrades from 4.x or earlier versions to 5.0 are supported. In future, we plan to
                support normal in-place upgrades from 5.0 to newer versions.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>SDK Compatibility</entry>
              <entry>Many beta features require you to upgrade your client SDK versions. The current
                versions that support the latest features are shown below, and regardless of needing
                new features, it is always advised to upgrade to the newest SDK version.<p>
                  <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_o1h_fmv_xz">
                    <tgroup cols="3">
                      <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
                      <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
                      <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="2.3*"/>
                      <thead>
                        <row>
                          <entry>SDK</entry>
                          <entry>Version</entry>
                          <entry>Reference</entry>
                        </row>
                      </thead>
                      <tbody>
                        <row>
                          <entry>Java</entry>
                          <entry>2.4.7</entry>
                          <entry><xref
                              href="https://developer.couchbase.com/server/other-products/release-notes-archives/java-sdk"
                              format="html" scope="external">Release notes</xref></entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                          <entry>.NET</entry>
                          <entry>2.4.7</entry>
                          <entry><xref
                              href="https://developer.couchbase.com/server/other-products/release-notes-archives/dotnet-sdk#2.4.5"
                              format="html" scope="external">Release notes</xref></entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                          <entry>Node.js</entry>
                          <entry>2.3.5</entry>
                          <entry><xref
                              href="https://developer.couchbase.com/server/other-products/release-notes-archives/nodejs-sdk"
                              format="html" scope="external">Release notes</xref></entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                          <entry>Python</entry>
                          <entry>2.2.5</entry>
                          <entry><xref
                              href="https://developer.couchbase.com/server/other-products/release-notes-archives/python-sdk"
                              format="html" scope="external">Release notes</xref></entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                          <entry>PHP</entry>
                          <entry>2.3.3</entry>
                          <entry><xref
                              href="https://developer.couchbase.com/server/other-products/release-notes-archives/php-sdk"
                              format="html" scope="external">Release notes</xref></entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                          <entry>Go</entry>
                          <entry>1.2.4</entry>
                          <entry><xref
                              href="https://developer.couchbase.com/server/other-products/release-notes-archives/go-sdk"
                              format="html" scope="external">Release notes</xref></entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                          <entry>C</entry>
                          <entry>2.7.6</entry>
                          <entry><xref
                              href="https://developer.couchbase.com/server/other-products/release-notes-archives/c-sdk"
                              format="html" scope="external">Release notes</xref></entry>
                        </row>
                      </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
                  </table>
                </p></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Security</entry>
              <entry><b>x.509 Certificate-based Authentication for clients</b><p>
                  <ul id="ul_t5m_xph_p1b">
                    <li>x.509 Certificate Based Authentication only works for the data service.</li>
                    <li>For Couchbase Server 5.0 Beta 2, x.509 Certificate-based Authentication
                      support is only available in the Java Client.</li>
                    <li>If using XDCR, do not use the "mandatory" mode for X.509 Certificate
                      Authentication.</li>
                  </ul>
                </p></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>UI Known Issue: <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-25040"
                  format="html" scope="external">MB-25040</xref></entry>
              <entry>The text on the UI Logs tab overlap making the event messages
                unreadable.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Ubuntu 16: <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-25302"
                  format="html" scope="external">MB-25302</xref></entry>
              <entry>By default, <codeph>python</codeph> is not installed on Ubuntu 16. As some tools such as <codeph>cbcollect_info</codeph>,
                <codeph>cbstats</codeph>, <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> etc. require you to install <codeph>python</codeph> to be able to use them. This can be done
                using:
                <codeblock>
                  apt install python
                </codeblock></entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Fixed Issues</title> This section lists the fixed issues in this release: <p><b>Cluster
          Manager</b></p><p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_vbm_p3s_dz">
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.64*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Issue</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-19769" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-19769</xref></entry>
                <entry>Couchbase CLI command for disabling web UI over port 8091 using the
                    <codeph>setting-security</codeph> command.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </p><p><b>Data Service</b></p><p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_tbm_p3s_dz2">
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.64*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Issue</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-25204" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-25204</xref></entry>
                <entry>Unable to edit or view the documents from the UI for any sample or user
                  created buckets.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-24923" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-24923</xref></entry>
                <entry>Creating documents in a mixed cluster mode failed with an error. </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-24474" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-24474</xref></entry>
                <entry>Ephemeral buckets crashed during rebalance. While the issue has been fixed,
                  note that rebalance can take some time to complete.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-23885" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-23885</xref></entry>
                <entry><cmdname>cbcompact</cmdname> failed to purge deleted data.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-21784" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-21784</xref></entry>
                <entry>Temporary failure on stream request leads to rebalance hang.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-19663" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-19663</xref></entry>
                <entry>Deletion of the bucket takes longer time.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </p><p><b>Full Text Search Service</b></p><table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1"
        id="table_lfz_qr5_xz">
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.64*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Issue</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-25211" format="html"
                scope="external">MB-25211</xref></entry>
              <entry>Queries returned deleted documents when <codeph>level_compaction</codeph> was
                turned on.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-24979" format="html"
                scope="external">MB-24979</xref></entry>
              <entry>Rebalancing a cluster with FTS nodes failed.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-24978" format="html"
                scope="external">MB-24978</xref></entry>
              <entry>Rebalancing a cluster with FTS nodes failed.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-24707" format="html"
                scope="external">MB-24707</xref></entry>
              <entry>Clicking on a search result link failed to return the document, instead it
                returned the message “<systemoutput>No pindex named</systemoutput>”.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-24695" format="html"
                scope="external">MB-24695</xref></entry>
              <entry>Query_string queries did not work well with numeric range values. </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-19271" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-19271</xref></entry>
              <entry>Idle nodes with the full text search service were observed to suddenly consume
                100% CPU.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17433" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-17433</xref></entry>
              <entry>An error is thrown when trying to create more than 10 full-text
                indexes.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table><p><b>Indexing Service</b></p><table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1"
        id="table_lfz_qr5_xz2">
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.64*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Issue</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-24530" format="html"
                scope="external">MB-24530</xref></entry>
              <entry>Query with multiple spans <codeph>(count(distinct field))</codeph> gives
                different results for IN operator with secondary index versus the primary
                index.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-24164" format="html"
                scope="external">MB-24164</xref></entry>
              <entry>Data backup role is now enforced in secondary indexes.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-22963" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-22963</xref></entry>
              <entry>Query with <codeph>meta</codeph> in [""] with primary index returns duplicate
                results.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-222092" format="html"
                scope="external">MB-22092</xref></entry>
              <entry>When a create index statement specified the nodes, the UI incorrectly displayed
                the actual index definition including the node IP and name.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table><p><b>Query Service</b></p><p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_ubm_p3s_dz">
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.64*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Issue</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-24940" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-24940</xref></entry>
                <entry>User with query_select role on a bucket was able to insert values into
                  another bucket.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-24937" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-24937</xref></entry>
                <entry>User with query_insert permission on a bucket could create and drop a primary
                  index on that bucket.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-24803" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-24803</xref></entry>
                <entry>Following an upgrade, a bucket could not be accessed by the user created
                  specifically for the bucket during upgrade.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-24732" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-24732</xref></entry>
                <entry>An administrator user was unable to GRANT roles to other users if the admin
                  user’s name contained special characters.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-24216" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-24216</xref></entry>
                <entry>Slow running subqueries were not shown in
                  <codeph>active_requests</codeph>.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-24048" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-24048</xref></entry>
                <entry>Long integers are truncated when used in the <codeph>TOSTRING()</codeph>
                  function.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-23966" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-23966</xref></entry>
                <entry>Query results are different in a query using covered Intersectscan of array
                  index and primary scan.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-23827" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-23827</xref></entry>
                <entry>Arithmetic operations on UNNEST on array of values causes panic.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-23733" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-23733</xref></entry>
                <entry>Queries with NOT of AND predicates are not using multiple indexes.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-23716" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-23716</xref></entry>
                <entry>Query with regular expression times out on Centos and Windows systems. A
                  panic seen in the query.log file.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-23203" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-23203</xref></entry>
                <entry>Index-JOIN chooses the wrong index and doesn't choose the right index
                  consistently.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-23032" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-23032</xref></entry>
                <entry>The Query service may leak memory and crash with goroutine stacktraces when
                  processing incorrectly and incompletely formed N1QL queries.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-22817" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-22817</xref></entry>
                <entry>Fix covering of META.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-22757" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-22757</xref></entry>
                <entry>Mishandling of mix of covering and non-covering scans may cause incorrect
                  query results.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-22570" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-22570</xref></entry>
                <entry>Date functions should return NULL on errors.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-22419" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-22419</xref></entry>
                <entry>Query may result in incorrect results when handling LIMIT pushdown with
                  intersect scans. Fix also includes related performance improvement.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-22398" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-22398</xref></entry>
                <entry>Fix performance and correctness of Ordered and Intersect Scans.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-22313" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-22313</xref></entry>
                <entry>Panic when WHERE clause contains IN [NULL].</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-22105" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-22105</xref></entry>
                <entry>Increasing batch size leads to crashes.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-22093" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-22093</xref></entry>
                <entry>The goroutine memory leak in query engine execution pipeline.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-21958" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-21958</xref></entry>
                <entry>The <codeph>META().id</codeph> predicate is not included in spans shouldn't
                  use index pushdowns. This may result in incorrect results when WHERE clause has
                  predicates on <codeph>META().id</codeph> and other predicates in the WHERE clause
                  can be pushed to an index.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-21720" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-21720</xref></entry>
                <entry>AND of ANY / EVERY does not work with array indexes.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-21660" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-21660</xref></entry>
                <entry>Chained UPDATE FOR does not work for non-uniform dimensions.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-21293" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-21293</xref></entry>
                <entry>Performance: Garbage Collection in query engine may cause 30% drop in
                  throughput and CPU utilization.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-20980" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-20980</xref></entry>
                <entry>Query may give incorrect results because of a wrongly pushed optimization of
                  LIMIT from outer subquery to inner subquery.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-20946" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-20946</xref></entry>
                <entry>N1QL scanner accepts escaped quoted strings as valid quoted strings, instead
                  of returning error.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-20925" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-20925</xref></entry>
                <entry>Correlated subquery with covered index will not return results.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-20517" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-20517</xref></entry>
                <entry>INSERT and UPSERT parallelism should be limited.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-20384" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-20384</xref></entry>
                <entry>A backslash in LIKE expression causes Query engine panic.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-20381" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-20381</xref></entry>
                <entry>Numeric values exceeding MAXINT64 are truncated.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-20095" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-20095</xref></entry>
                <entry>Query result may have unnecessary newline added during the ‘pretty’ format,
                  even when the object or array in the result is empty.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </p><p><b>Security</b></p><p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_wbm_p3s_dz2">
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.64*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Issue</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-25136" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-25136</xref></entry>
                <entry>When a user with data backup role tried to restore a backup,
                    <cmdname>cbbackupmgr</cmdname> failed with an authentication error.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-25117" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-25117</xref></entry>
                <entry>When a user with data backup role tried to backup a cluster,
                    <cmdname>cbbackupmgr</cmdname> failed with an authentication error.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-24948" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-24948</xref></entry>
                <entry>When a non-cluster administrator user changed the user password, it caused
                  the entire cluster to go offline.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </p>
      <p><b>Web Console</b></p><p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_wbm_p3s_dz1">
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.64*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Issue</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-20682" format="html"
                    scope="external">MB-20682</xref></entry>
                <entry>Show-by-server view does not work for DCP queues, views, and indexes.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="deprecated-items">
      <title>Deprecated Items</title>
      <p>The following platforms are no longer supported: </p>
      <p>
        <ul id="ul_ukj_n15_xz">
          <li>Microsoft Windows 7</li>
          <li>Microsoft Windows 8 </li>
          <li>Microsoft Windows 2008</li>
          <li>Amazon Linux 2014.03</li>
          <li>Ubuntu Linux 12.04</li>
          <li>Mac OS X 10.10, 10.9, 10.8</li>
        </ul>
      </p>
      <p>The following functionality is deprecated, will be deprecated or is unsupported.</p>
      <p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_my1_5p4_jz">
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="3*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Function</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>CLI <codeph>setting-ldap</codeph> command</entry>
                <entry>This command is deprecated in this release. Use the
                    <codeph>admin-role-manage</codeph> command instead.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>BASE64()</codeph> functions (Deprecated since 4.5)</entry>
                <entry>The <codeph>BASE64()</codeph> function is deprecated in version 4.5; use the
                  function <codeph>BASE64_ENCODE()</codeph> instead. <p>Also, use the
                      <codeph>BASE64_DECODE()</codeph> function to reverse the encoding done by
                      <codeph>BASE64_ENCODE()</codeph>.</p></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Server-side moxi <xref
                    href="../install/install-client-server.dita#concept_d5r_vdp_ts">proxy</xref> is
                  deprecated in Couchbase Server and CLI tools</entry>
                <entry>Use Couchbase client SDKs or client-side moxi in your applications.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>CRAM-MD5 for bucket authentication</entry>
                <entry>Use SCRAM protocol supporting clients for bucket authentication in Couchbase
                  Server version 4.5. SCRAM protocol for bucket authentication will first be
                  introduced in Java, followed by other SDK clients. </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Deprecate XDCR API from <filepath>/internalSettings</filepath> REST endpoint
                  in 4.5</entry>
                <entry><filepath>/Settings/replications</filepath> REST endpoint will be available
                  for all replication settings and provides the same functionality.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>CAPI based XDCR is deprecated</entry>
                <entry>CAPI based XDCR is deprecated and will be removed in a future version of
                  Couchbase Server. <p>Note that the support for Elasticsearch Plugin has not been
                    removed. However, the Elasticsearch Plugin may be modified in the future to use
                    an alternative connection method such as DCP or XMEM XDCR (XDCR v2).</p></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Couchbase Enterprise Backup and Restore tool</entry>
                <entry>The tools, <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> and <codeph>cbrestore</codeph>, are
                  deprecated from the Enterprise Edition. We recommend replacing these old tools
                  with the new enterprise backup and restore tool, <xref
                    href="../backup-restore/cbbackupmgr.dita">cbbackupmgr</xref>.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Standard Global Secondary Indexes</entry>
                <entry>A new high performance storage engine for GSI will replace the existing GSI
                  storage engine, which is deprecated. </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
