<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="indexer-architecture">
 <title>Indexer flow diagram</title>
 <shortdesc>Summary of the architecture and processes of the Index service.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  
  <p>Index service enables:</p>
  
  <ul>
   <li>Targeting an index to a node</li>
   <li>Deferred index builds</li>
   <li>Building of several indexes together</li>
  </ul>
  
  <p>DCP is used to obtain the bucket-level changes feed from the KV Data service. Each bucket feed
   requires a separate TCP/IP connection and also involves KV-backfill overhead from Couchbase which
   could potentially affect KV performance if left uncontrolled. For maintenance of each index, a
   bucket feed is required.</p>
  
  <p>When an index is built, bucket feeds and key-value backfills are used. When several indexes
   are created, that means the equivalent number of bucket feeds and key-value backfills are
   required. To optimize resources such as bucket feeds, key-value backfills, and network
   bandwidth, use a deferred group build.</p>
  
  <p>The index coordinator is responsible for:</p>
  <ul>
   <li>Managing the index topology and definitions. </li>
   <li>Coordinates indexers bootstrap.</li>
   <li>Coordinates rollbacks due to key-value failovers.</li>
   <li>Generates and broadcasts stability timestamps.</li>
   <li>Creates and manages incremental updates and backfill connections with projectors.</li>
  </ul>
  
  
  
 
  
  
 </conbody>
</concept>
