<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="recovery-kv-rollback">
 <title>KV rollback</title>
 <shortdesc>The process for reconnecting with DCP due to a key-value (KV) rollback.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  
   
   <p>This section depicts the step when the projector needs to reconnect to the DCP provider due to
      a KV rollback.</p>
   
   <p>High level synopsis of the process:</p>
   <ol>
    <li>The index coordinator notifies its replica that it is entering into rollback mode and
        synchronously replicating the recovery context to its replica. If the index manager dies,
        the new index coordinator resumes the rollback process from the recovery context. The
        recovery context contains failed vBucket information.</li>
    <li>The index coordinator notifies each indexer to enter into recovery mode by passing the failover log received from the projector.
    </li>
    <li>The index coordinator establishes a new DCP connection with all the projectors for index
        maintenance. Each individual local indexer starts in recovery mode. It switches over from
        recovery mode to normal mode when the catch-up traffic has a sequence number that is equal
        or greater than the sequence number at the mutation queue. Once the indexer is in the normal
        mode, it starts consuming mutations in the mutation queue.</li>
     <li>At any point during rollback, if there is any local indexer being restarted, the local
        indexer enters into recovery mode.</li>
   </ol>
   
 </conbody>
</concept>
