<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="authorization">
  
  <title>
    Services and Indexes
  </title>
  
  <shortdesc>
    Couchbase <i>Services</i> support access to and maintenance of data.
    <i>Indexes</i> enhance the performance of query and search operations.
  </shortdesc>
  
  <body>
    
    <section>
      
      <title>
        Services
      </title>
      
      <p>
        Services are configured and deployed by the Full Administrator who initializes
        Couchbase Server on one or more nodes. The standard configuration-sequence allows
        a subset of services to be selected per node, with an individual memory-allocation for each. Each service supports
        a particular form of data-access. Services not required need not be deployed. 
        Services intended to support a heavy workload can be deployed across
        multiple cluster-nodes, to ensure optimal performance and resource-availability.
      </p>
      
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Indexes
      </title>
      
      <p>
        <i>Indexes</i> are used by certain services, such as
        <i>Query</i>, <i>Analytics</i>, and <i>Search</i>, as targets 
        for search-routines. 
        Each index makes a predefined
        subset of bucket-data available for the search.
      </p>
      
      <p>
        The <i>Query</i> and <i>Analytics</i>
        services both rely on indexes provided by the <i>Index</i> service. The
        <i>Search</i> service provides its own indexes, internally.
      </p>
      
      <p>
        Indexes, when well-designed, provide significant enhancements to the performance of
        search-operations.
      </p>
      
    </section>
    
  </body>
  
</topic>
