<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
  
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="chooseYourNextSteps">
	
	<title>
		Choose Your Next Steps
	</title>
	
	<shortdesc>
		Now, to complete the <i>Getting Started</i> sequence: consider your options as to
		what to do next, in order to continue improving your knowledge. The Couchbase documentation-set 
		provides detailed information on all aspects
		of the system; and this section lists some of the important areas you can visit.
	</shortdesc>
	
	<body> 
		
		<section>
			
			<title>
				Where to Learn More
			</title>
			
			<p>
				By navigating to the sections listed below, you can increase your knowledge of the areas 
				you've already looked at &#8212; 
				installation, configuration, and N1QL-querying &#8212; and also
				learn about new and (in some cases) quite advanced topics; such as multi-node clustering, fail-over, replication, and
				statistical analysis. 
			</p>
			
		</section>
		
		<section>
			<title>
				Installation and Configuration
			</title>
			
			<p>
				Couchbase Server is supported on numerous popular operating systems. A complete list can be found
				in the section <xref href="../install/install-platforms.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Supported Platforms</xref>.
				You may now wish to install Couchbase Server directly on one or more additional platforms: so, first, check
				to ensure that the platforms are supported.
			</p>
			
			<p>
				Then, take a look at the information provided in 
				<xref href="../install/install-intro.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Installing On-Premises</xref>. This gives
				you links to installation-procedures for each of the individual platforms.
			</p>
			
			<p>
				Couchbase Server can be run in a variety of configurations. You can perform configuration by means of the
				Couchbase Web Console, via the Couchbase Command Line Interface (<i>CLI</i>), or with the Couchbase <i>REST</i>
				API. See the section 
				<xref href="../install/init-setup.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Initialize the Cluster</xref>, for details.
			</p>
			
			<p>
				Periodically, you will also need to stop and start individual server-nodes. Information on doing this is
				provided in the section
				<xref href="../install/startup-shutdown.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Couchbase Server Startup and Shutdown</xref>.
			</p>
		</section>
		
		<section>
			<title>
				Querying with N1QL
			</title>
			
			<p>
				As you've already seen, you can query Couchbase Server manually, using the N1QL query language and the
				<xref href="../tools/query-workbench.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Query Workbench</xref> provided 
				by the Couchbase Web Console. A full introduction to N1QL can be found in the section
				<xref href="../sdk/n1ql-query.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Querying with N1QL</xref>: note that this
				includes information on using <codeph>cbq</codeph>, which allows
				N1QL queries to be entered at the command line.
			</p>
			
			<p>
				Additionally, N1QL queries can be specified by means of the Couchbase <i>REST</i> API. For information on doing
				so, see the section
				<xref href="../n1ql/n1ql-rest-api/index.dita" scope="local" format="dita">N1QL REST API</xref>
			</p>
			
		</section>
		
		<section>
			<title>
				Using the Couchbase SDK
			</title>
			
			<p>
				If you downloaded and ran the example provided in
				<xref href="./run-hello-world.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Run <i>Hello World!</i></xref>, you've
				already gained some insight into the Couchbase SDK. That example was written in
				node.js: but the Couchbase SDK also provides versions in Java, .NET, Go, C, PHP, and Python.
			</p>
			
			<p>
				Under the <b>DEVELOPERS</b> tab in the vertical navigation-bar to the left, you'll find detailed information
				on all aspects of the Couchbase SDK, and how to use it. First, take a look at the section
				<xref href="../sdk/nodejs/start-using-sdk.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Start Using the SDK</xref>. Towards
				the upper right of that page is a pull-down menu, which allows you to select a language. The page 
				for the language you select provides information on installing
				supportive modules and libraries; as well as code-examples, to get you started with development.
			</p>
			
		</section>
		
		<section>
			<title>
				Concepts and Architecture
			</title>
			
			<p>
				Your hands-on progress with Couchbase Server will be greatly helped by a
				good <i>conceptual</i> knowledge.
				This is provided under the <b>CONCEPTS &amp; ARCHITECTURE</b> tab, visible in the
				vertical navigation-bar, to the left. Start by looking at the
				<xref href="../concepts/concepts-intro.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Overview</xref>; then, go from there.
				
			</p>
		</section>
		
		<section>
			<title>
				Administration
			</title>
			
			<p>
				If you are an administrator, your priority will be to learn about system-setup and cluster-management.
				So, access the documentation under the <b>ADMINISTRATORS</b> tab, visible in the navigation-bar; which 
				includes extensive information
				on clusters, data-buckets, indexing, replication, security, and more. 
			</p>
		</section>
		
		<section>
			<title>
				Integration
			</title>
			
			<p>
				In some cases, you may wish to integrate Couchbase Server with another, different data-repository. For example,
				you might wish to continue using your current <i>Elasticsearch</i> database for the performance of free text
				searches; and extend these searches to Couchbase Server-data, so that Couchbase-documents can be retrieved. 
				For this to be possible,
				data must be shared between the repositories, and your querying coordinated between them. 
			</p>
			
			<p>
				Under the <b>INTEGRATIONS</b>
				tab, you can find information about Elasticsearch and all other repositories with which you can integrate Couchbase Server, 
				thereby enriching your existing search-and-retrieval mechanisms.
			</p>
		</section>
			
		<section>
			<title>
				Additional Information
			</title>
			
			<p>
				You can find extensive reference information on APIs, analytics, and tools under the <b>REFERENCES</b> tab, in the navigation-bar.
				<b>RELEASE NOTES</b> can also be accessed there.
			</p>
		</section>
		
	</body>
	
</topic>


	

