<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
  
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="doAQuickInstall">
	
	<title>Do a Quick Install</title>
	
	<shortdesc>First-time users can get Couchbase Server running simply and rapidly by using Docker.
		Once you install Docker, you can use a single command to download and install a
		pre-configured version of Couchbase Server Enterprise Edition on your computer.</shortdesc>
	
	<body>
		<note>The Docker container image that is used in this topic is meant to set up a 'sandbox'
			version of Couchbase Server. It's based on the Enterprise Edition and contains scripts
			that automatically configure several Couchbase components during installation. Although
			this particular image works great for a demo, it is not meant for production. For
			information about using containers to run Couchbase Server in production, see <xref
				href="../install/running-couchbase-in-containers.dita#run-couchbase-in-containers"
			/>.</note> 
		
		
		<section id="initialize-cluster-web-console">
			
			<title>Download and Install Docker</title>
			
			<p>Docker is a freely available application that lets you install a fully-configured instance of
				Couchbase Server with a single command. To set up Docker on your computer, go to the
					<xref href="https://www.docker.com/get-docker" format="html" scope="external"
					>Docker installation page</xref> and follow the instructions.</p>
			
		</section>
		
		<section>
			
			<title>Use Docker to Install Couchbase Server</title>
			<p>Once Docker is installed on your computer, you can go ahead and install Couchbase
				Server.</p>
			<p>
				<note>You may need administrative or root privileges on your computer to complete the
					installation.</note>
			</p>
			
			<p>Open a console window on your computer and enter the following command:</p>
			
			<codeblock>docker run -t --name db -p 8091-8094:8091-8094 -p 11210:11210 couchbase/server:6.0.0-beta</codeblock>
			
			<p>When you run the command, Docker downloads, installs, and configures Couchbase Server.
				Eventually, Couchbase Server is started in a Docker virtual environment:</p>
			
			<codeblock>.
.
.
Starting Couchbase Server -- Web UI available at http://&lt;ip>:8091
and logs available in /opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/logs
Configuring Couchbase Server.  Please wait (~60 sec)...
Configuration completed!
Couchbase Admin UI: http://localhost:8091 
Login credentials: Administrator / password</codeblock>
				
			<p>From this point onward, don't close the console while you're using Couchbase Server; this
				terminates both Docker and Couchbase Server.</p>
			
		</section>
		
		<section>	
			
			<title>Next</title>
			
			<p>You can now proceed to the next step: <xref href="look-at-the-results.dita#lookAtTheResults"
				/>.</p>
			
		</section>
		
		<section>
			
			<title>Other Destinations</title>
			
			<ul>
				
				<li><xref href="../install/install-intro.dita#topic_edn_wtd_54"/>: Explains how to install
					Couchbase Server directly onto your host, without the use of Docker or any other
					virtual environment. This kind of direct install is very common for
					production-deployments, as well as development and testing activities.</li>
				
				
				<li><xref href="../install/init-setup.dita#topic12527"/>: Provides a detailed explanation of how
					to custom-configure Couchbase Server at start-up. This is the procedure you will
					certainly use in production; as well as for testing different configurations.
					The available options include use of the Couchbase Server Web Console, the
					Couchbase REST API, and the Couchbase Command Line Interface.</li>
				
				<li><xref href="../install/startup-shutdown.dita#topic_frj_trw_hw"/>: Explains how to start and
					stop the server using the commands that are specific to your underlying
					platform.</li>
				
			</ul>
			
		</section>
		
	</body>
	
</topic>


	

