<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="installing">
	<title>Quick installation and setup</title>
	<shortdesc>You can install Couchbase Server on Linux, Microsoft Windows, or OS X systems. These
		streamlined instructions will help you get up and running right away in a nonproduction
		environment so you can start learning how to use Couchbase Server.</shortdesc>

	<conbody>

<note type="important">The quick installation and setup instructions on this page are intended to be
			used only for trying out Couchbase Server. If you are installing Couchbase Server for
			development, test, and production purposes, install Couchbase Server by following the <xref
				href="../install/install-intro.dita#topic_edn_wtd_54">detailed installation and setup
				instructions</xref> in the <cite>Installation Guide</cite>.</note>
		<note type="note">You can also read about sizing the Couchbase Server cluster in the <xref
				href="(http://blog.couchbase.com/how-many-nodes-part-1-introduction-sizing-couchbase-server-20-cluster)"
				format="html" scope="external">blog</xref>.</note>
		<section>
			<title>Downloading Couchbase Server</title>
			<p>If you haven't already downloaded Couchbase Server, get it now from the <b><xref
						href="http://www.couchbase.com/nosql-databases/downloads#PreRelease" format="html"
						scope="external">Couchbase Server downloads</xref></b> page.</p>

			<p>You can download Couchbase Server directly to a Linux system by using the
					<cmdname>wget</cmdname> command. The basic syntax of the <cmdname>wget</cmdname>
				command is:</p>
			<codeblock><synph><kwd>wget</kwd> [<var>option</var>]... [<var>url</var>]...</synph></codeblock>
			
			<p>To find the URL to specify in the <cmdname>wget</cmdname> command, go to
				the download page and copy the download link for your specific operating system.</p>
			<p>If you do not download Couchbase Server directly to the server on which you want to install
				it, you need to transfer the file to the server by some other means (for example, by
				using FTP).</p>
		</section>
		<section>
			<title>Installing on Red Hat or CentOS Linux systems</title>
			<p>To install on Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) or CentOS Linux:</p>
			<ol>
				<li>Log on to the server as root.</li>
				<li>
					<p>Enter the following command to install Couchbase Server, replacing
							<varname>couchbase-server-version.rpm</varname> with the name of the file you
						downloaded:</p>
					<codeblock>$ rpm --install <varname>couchbase-server-version.rpm</varname></codeblock>
					<p>Couchbase Server starts automatically after the installation completes.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Installing on Debian or Ubuntu Linux systems</title>

			<p>To install on Debian or Ubuntu Linux:</p>
			<ol>
				<li>Log on to the server as root.</li>
				<li>Enter the following command to install <xref
						href="https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OpenSSL" format="html" scope="external"
						>OpenSSL</xref>, replacing <varname>version</varname> with a specific version
					number of
					OpenSSL:<codeblock>$ apt-get install libssl<varname>version</varname></codeblock></li>
				<li>
					<p>Enter the following command to install Couchbase Server, replacing
							<varname>couchbase-server-version.deb</varname> with the name of the file you
						downloaded:</p>
					<codeblock>$ dpkg -i <varname>couchbase-server-version.deb</varname></codeblock>
					<p>Couchbase Server starts automatically after the installation completes.</p>
				</li>

			</ol>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Installing on OS X systems</title>
			<p>To install on OS X:</p>
			<ol>
				<li>Delete any previous installations of Couchbase Server either by using the command
					line or by dragging the Couchbase Server application to the Trash. </li>
				<li>Open a Terminal window and delete any application support files from previous
					installations:
					<codeblock>$ rm -rf ~/Library/Application\ Support/Couchbase
$ rm -rf ~/Library/Application\ Support/Membase</codeblock></li>
				<li>Expand the downloaded zip file (if it didn't expand automatically) and open the
					folder. <p>The folder contains the Couchbase Server application and a
							<filepath>README.txt</filepath> file.</p></li>
				<li>Drag the <filepath>Couchbase Server</filepath> file to the
						<filepath>Applications</filepath> folder.</li>
				<li>
					<p>Start Couchbase Server by double-clicking the application icon.</p>
					<p>If you get a message that says you can't run Couchbase Server due to security
						restrictions, right-click the icon for Couchbase Server and choose
							<uicontrol>Open</uicontrol> from the pop-up menu.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>

		</section>
		<section>
			<title>Installing on 64-bit Microsoft Windows systems</title>
			<p>To install on Microsoft Windows:</p>
			<ol>
				<li>Double-click the downloaded executable file to start the installer.</li>
				<li>Follow the installer prompts.
				<ul>
					<li>If desired, you can change the installation location.</li>
					<li>If the default port is unavailable, the installer prompts you for a different
						port to use for server administration.</li>
					<li>When the installer asks if you want to increase the number of ephemeral ports,
						click <uicontrol>Yes</uicontrol>.</li>
				</ul></li>
				<li>After the installation is complete, restart Couchbase Server to apply the port changes.</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
		
		
		<section>
			<title>Setting up Couchbase Server</title>
			
			<p>When you open the Couchbase Web Console for the first time, you need to set up Couchbase
				Server. If you are trying out Couchbase Server in a nonproduction environment, you
				can just accept the default values provided on most of the set-up screens.</p>
			<note type="important">The quick installation and setup instructions on this page are intended to
				be used only for trying out Couchbase Server. If you are installing Couchbase Server for
				development, test, or production purposes, set up Couchbase Server by following the
					<xref href="../install/init-setup.dita#topic12527">detailed setup instructions</xref>
				in the <cite>Installation Guide</cite>.</note>
			
			<p>To set up Couchbase Server in a nonproduction environment:</p>
			<ol>
				<li>Open a browser and navigate to http://<varname>hostname</varname>:8091/.<p>In the URL,
					<varname>hostname</varname> represents the name or IP address of the
					computer that hosts Couchbase Server. If Couchbase Server is running locally,
					you can use <codeph>localhost</codeph> for the host name.</p></li>
				<li>Click <uicontrol>Setup</uicontrol>.</li>
				<li>On the Configure Server (Step 1 of 5) screen,  click <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol> to
					accept the default values.</li>
				<li>On the Sample Buckets (Step 2 of 5) screen, click <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>. </li>
				<li>On the Create Default Bucket (Step 3 of 5) screen, under Memory Size set the Per Node RAM
					Quota to 100&#xA0;MB, and then click <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>.</li>				
				<li>On the Notifications (Step 4 of 5) screen, enter your registration information, agree to the
					terms and conditions, and then click <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>.</li>
				<li>On the Configure Server (Step 5 of 5) screen, enter and verify a password for the
					administrator account, and then click <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>.<p>The web console
						opens and displays the Cluster Overview.</p></li>
			</ol>
			<p>Couchbase Server is now set up and you can manage it by using the web console. While you have
				the console open, click on the tabs in the top menu and look at the screens to
				familiarize yourself with the information and options available to you. </p>
		</section>
		
	</conbody>
</concept>
