<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
  
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="startHere">
	
	<title>
		Start Here!
	</title>
	
	<shortdesc>
		If you are a first-time user, you can get a great, quick introduction to using Couchbase Server, just by reading
		this section. In a few brief steps, you obtain direct experience of installing, running, and performing
		interactive queries on the server. You also get access to a simple code example; which is runnable out-of-the-box,
		and provides immediate insight into how Couchbase SDK-technology can enrich your
		application design-work.
	</shortdesc>
	
	<body> 
		
		<section id="initialize-cluster-web-console">
			
			<title>
				Steps for First-Time Users
			</title>
			
			<p>
				You'll now be guided through some of the key aspects of Couchbase Server. At the conclusion of the sequence,
				you'll have attained an excellent starting-point for further, more detail-driven activities. The
				steps are as follows:
			</p>
			
			<ol>
				
				<li>
					Do a Quick Install	
					
					<p>
						<!-- Vertical space -->
					</p>
				</li>
				
				<li>
					Look at the Results	

					<p>
						<!-- Vertical space -->
					</p>
				</li>
				
				<li>
					Try a Query	
					
					<p>
						<!-- Vertical space -->
					</p>
				</li>
				
				<li>
					Run Hello World!	
					
					<p>
						<!-- Vertical space -->
					</p>
				</li>
				
				<li>
					Choose Your Next Steps	
					
					<p>
						<!-- Vertical space -->
					</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
			
			<p>	
				If, at any stage, you decide that you wish to
				depart from the sequence, and make an immediate deep-dive into a specific topic, you can do so: by means
				of links we provide on every page to <i>Other Destinations</i>.
			</p>
			
			<p>
				Alternatively, if do elect to
				work continuously through the whole sequence (as indeed we suggest), you ultimately arrive at the 
				<xref href="./choose-your-next-steps.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Choose Your Next Steps</xref>
				section; which gives you comprehensive list of places you can go on to visit, within the Couchbase
				documentation-set, to continue increasing your knowledge.
			</p>
			
			<p>
				So, let's go straight to the first step in the sequence, 
				<xref href="./do-a-quick-install.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Do a Quick Install</xref>.
			</p>
			
		</section>
		
	</body>
	
</topic>


	

