<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_lk4_nv5_gy">
  <title>What's Next? </title>
  <body>
    <p>Ready to learn more about Couchbase Server? Here are some pointers that you can explore:</p>
    <p>
      <ul id="ul_rdq_pzb_hy">
        <li>Check out the <xref href="starter-kits.html" format="html"/> which walk you through the
          steps to create simple applications using Couchbase Server as the backend.</li>
        <li>For instructions to install Couchbase Server for development, test, or production
          purposes, refer to <xref href="../install/init-setup.dita#topic12527">detailed setup
            instructions</xref> in the <cite>Installation Guide</cite>.</li>
        <li>
          <draft-comment author="amarantha">Other links based on persona</draft-comment>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <section id="cleanup-demo-container">
      <title>Clean Up Your Demo Container</title>
      <p>While the ability to quickly spin up and try Couchbase Server using the Docker container
        has many benefits, over time you may find yourself running multiple containers with
        different base images and different versions of your apps. Eventually, we need to clean up
        the demo/test environment before proceeding to install a development or production
        environment. </p>
      <p>The following commands help you clean up your demo/test Docker container: <ol
          id="ol_xtf_zbc_hy">
          <li>Stop the container using the command: <codeblock>docker stop db</codeblock></li>
          <li>Remove the container using the command: <codeblock>docker rm db</codeblock></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="cleanup-test-env"><title>Clean Up Your Environment</title>
      <p>Remember to clean up your existing installation before installing a newer version of Couchbase Server. On Mac OS X, run the following: <ol>
        <li>Shut down any running instances of Couchbase Server.</li>
        <li>Delete any previous installations either by using the command line or by dragging the Couchbase Server application to the Trash.</li>
        <li>Open a Terminal window and delete any application support files from previous
            installations:
            <codeblock>$ rm -rf ~/Library/Application\Support/Couchbase
$ rm -rf ~/Library/Application\Support/Membase</codeblock></li>
      </ol> 
         
        </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
