<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_z3r_zgq_44">
	<title>Overview</title>
	<shortdesc>The Couchbase PHP SDK enables you to interact with Couchbase Server from a PHP
		application. </shortdesc>
	<conbody>
		<p>The PHP SDK consists of a native PHP library and a C/C++ add-on that uses the Couchbase C
			SDK (libcouchbase) internally. The PHP SDK includes the following components:</p>
		<ul>
			<li>PHP SDK client</li>
			<li>Developer guide (you're reading it now!)</li>
			<li>PHP SDK API reference</li>
			<li>Sample applications —<xref href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/beersample-php"
					format="html" scope="external">beer database</xref></li>
		</ul>

		<section>
			<title>Architecture</title>
			<p>To debug errors, you must be familiar with the PHP SDK architecture to understand
				where problems might originate. The following components participate in typical
				operations: </p>
			<ul>
				<li><p><b>Couchbase Server</b></p>
					<p>This is the server itself, which stores your data. Errors can happen here if
						your data does not exist, or if there are connectivity issues with one or
						more nodes in the server. While Couchbase Server is scalable and fault
						tolerant, there are naturally some conditions that cause failures (for
						example, if all nodes are unreachable).</p></li>

				<li><p><b>libcouchbase</b></p>
					<p>libcouchbase, our C client library, provides the underlying layer that
						handles network communication and protocol handling between a client and a
						Couchbase node. Network connectivity issues tend to happen here.</p></li>

				<li><p><b>PHP C binding layer</b></p>
					<p>The binding layer contains the C code that provides the bulk of the SDK. It
						interfaces with the libcouchbase component, handles marshaling of
						information between libcouchbase and your application, performs input
						validation, and encoding and decoding of keys and values.</p>
				</li>
				<li><p><b>PHP layer</b></p>
					<p>The PHP layer is written in pure PHP. Simple key-value operations are
						normally just dispatched to the C layer. Most of the view operations are
						handled here as well, with the C binding layer just performing the
						lower-level network handling.</p></li>
			</ul>
		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Compatibility</title>
			<p>To take advantage of all features offered by Couchbase Server, you need to know what
				version of the SDK provides compatibility for the features you want to use. The
				following matrix shows which versions of the PHP SDK support the major features of
				each version of Couchbase Server.</p>
			<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_qpl_ttq_44">
				<title>Couchbase Server and SDK Supported Version Matrix</title>
				<tgroup cols="5">
					<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="4.39*"/>
					<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="4.29*"/>
					<colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="4.4*"/>
					<colspec colname="c4" colnum="4" colwidth="4.35*"/>
					<colspec colname="c5" colnum="5" colwidth="4.35*"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry/>
							<entry>Server 1.8</entry>
							<entry>Server 2.0</entry>
							<entry>Server 2.5</entry>
							<entry>Server 3.0</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry namest="c1" nameend="c5"><b>Basic Features</b></entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>CRUD Operations</entry>
							<entry namest="c2" nameend="c5">Since 1.0</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>View Querying APIs</entry>
							<entry>Not Supported</entry>
							<entry namest="c3" nameend="c5">Since 1.0</entry>
						</row>

						<row>
							<entry namest="c1" nameend="c5"><b>Advanced Features</b></entry>
						</row>

						<row>
							<entry>Durability Requirements</entry>
							<entry namest="c2" nameend="c5">Since 1.0</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>Fast (CCCP) Bootstrapping</entry>
							<entry namest="c2" nameend="c3">Not Supported</entry>
							<entry namest="c4" nameend="c5">Since 2.0</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>SSL Connectivity</entry>
							<entry namest="c2" nameend="c4">Not Supported</entry>
							<entry>Since 2.0</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>Transparent Compression</entry>
							<entry namest="c2" nameend="c4">Not Supported</entry>
							<entry>Since 2.0</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>Cross-SDK Data types</entry>
							<entry>Not Supported</entry>
							<entry namest="c3" nameend="c5">Since 2.0</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>N1QL Querying</entry>
							<entry namest="c2" nameend="c5">Since 2.0</entry>
						</row>

						<row>
							<entry namest="c1" nameend="c5"><b>Administrative Features</b></entry>
						</row>

						<row>
							<entry>Administrative API</entry>
							<entry namest="c2" nameend="c5">Since 2.0</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Contributing</title>
			<p>Couchbase welcomes community contributions to the PHP SDK. The <xref
					href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/php-couchbase" format="html"
					scope="external">PHP SDK source code</xref> is available on GitHub.</p>
		</section>

	</conbody>


</concept>
