<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="toplevel">
    <title>CRUD Document Operations using the Go SDK with Couchbase Server</title>
    <titlealts><navtitle>Document Operations</navtitle></titlealts>
    <shortdesc>This topic covers the basic CRUD operations of creating, retrieving, updating, and
        deleting documents. It also describes how to do bulk operations and atomic
        operations.</shortdesc>
    <body>
        <section><title>Document Types</title>SDK operations use basic Go data types and JSON
            marshaling functionality. <p>All Go data types that can be serialized via the JSON
                encoding library are supported by default. All textual data is represented by UTF-8
                when stored in Couchbase Server. If you do not wish to use Go's JSON functionality
                and handle your own encoding and decoding, you can implement your own
                <xref href="#toplevel/non-json">transcoder</xref>.</p><p>When retrieving documents, documents are received via an
                    <i>out</i> pointer: simply pass a pointer to an object of the appropriate type
                (or an empty interface) and the decoder will set it to an object of the appropriate
                type. If you wish to convert to a specific type, simply pass a pointer of the
                appropriate type and object will be populated with the appropriate
                values.<codeblock>var value = interface{}
cas, err := bucket.Get("document_id", &amp;value)</codeblock><codeblock>var value MyObject{}
cas, err := bucket.Get("document_id", &amp;value)</codeblock></p></section>
        <section id="creatingdocuments"><title>Creating and Updating Full Documents</title><p>You
                can <xref href="../core-operations.dita#devguide_kvcore_generic"
                    >create or modify documents</xref> by using the
                <apiname>Bucket.Insert</apiname>, <apiname>Bucket.Upsert</apiname>, and
                    <apiname>Bucket.Replace</apiname> methods.</p>The following example shows how to
            create a new document with the <apiname>Insert()</apiname>
                method:<codeblock outputclass="language-go">myDoc := "Hello World"
cas, err := myBucket.Insert("document_name", &amp;myDoc, 0)
myDoc := "New Value"
cas, err := myBucket.Replace("document_name", &amp;myDoc, cas, 0)</codeblock><p>The
                methods returns an <apiname>error</apiname> and the document's current <xref
                    href="../concurrent-mutations-cluster.dita#concept_iq4_bts_zs">CAS</xref>
                which may be used for subsequent mutations</p><p>The last argument to
                    <apiname>Upsert</apiname> and <apiname>Insert</apiname> is the <xref
                    href="../core-operations.dita#devguide_kvcore_generic/expiry"
                    >document expiration</xref> time, while the last arguments to
                    <apiname>Replace</apiname> are the <i>CAS</i> and expiration time. Note that
                only <apiname>Replace</apiname> accepts the CAS as input.</p><p>If the document does
                not exist (and <apiname>Replace</apiname> was used) then the returned error will be
                    <apiname>gocb.ErrKeyNotFound</apiname>. If the document exists and
                    <apiname>Insert</apiname> was used, the returned error will be
                    <apiname>gocb.ErrKeyExists</apiname>.</p></section>
        <section>
            <title>Retrieving Full Documents</title>
            <p>You may retrieve full documents using the <apiname>Bucket.Get</apiname> method. The
                    <apiname>Get</apiname> method receives the document ID and a value pointer (see
                above) to receive the document
                itself:<codeblock>var value = interface{}
cas, err := myBucket.Get("document_name", &amp;value)</codeblock>The
                error and <xref
                    href="../concurrent-mutations-cluster.dita#concept_iq4_bts_zs">CAS</xref>
                of the document are returned. If the document does not exist, the error will be
                    <apiname>gocb.ErrKeyNotFound</apiname>. Note that if any error occurs, the value
                pointer will not be set.</p>
            <p>Note that the value pointer need not be of an empty interface. You can make the value
                of a more specific type, so long as the document decoder (by default, Go's JSON
                unmarshaller) can properly convert the serialized document to the target object.</p>
            <p>You may retrieve documents while simultaneously modifying the document's <xref
                    href="../core-operations.dita#devguide_kvcore_generic/expiry"
                    >expiration</xref> by using the <apiname>Bucket.GetAndTouch</apiname> method.
                This functions exactly like the <apiname>Get</apiname> method, except it takes a
                different set of arguments: the second argument is the new expiration time of the
                document, and the third is the value
                pointer:<codeblock>var value = interface{}
// expires in 5 minutes:
cas, err := myBucket.GetAndTouch("document_name", 300, &amp;value)</codeblock></p>
            <p>You may perform a replica read by using the <apiname>Bucket.GetReplica()</apiname>
                method. The last argument is the replica index, and should be set to 0 unless you
                desire accessing a specific replica. Note that the results from a replica read may
                not be consistent with the latest version of the document within the cluster and
                should only be used if the <xref href="failure-considerations.dita#topic_wxg_cwb_mv"
                    >active node is
                unavailable</xref>.<codeblock>var value = interface{}
cas, err := myBucket.GetReplica("document_name", &amp;value, 0)</codeblock></p>
        </section>
        <section id="deletingdocuments">
            <title>Deleting Documents</title>
            <p>You can delete documents by using the <apiname>Bucket.Remove()</apiname> method. You
                may supply the <xref
                    href="../concurrent-mutations-cluster.dita#concept_iq4_bts_zs">CAS</xref>
                as a third argument to <apiname>Remove</apiname>, in which case the operation will
                fail if the CAS has since been modified on the server.</p>
            <p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-go">cas, err := myBucket.Remove("document_name", 0)</codeblock>
            </p>
        </section>
        <section id="bulk-ops"><title>Bulk operations</title><p>You can perform <xref
                    href="../batching-operations.dita#concept_qfq_5jg_1t">bulk
                    operations</xref> by using the various <apiname>*Op</apiname> (e.g.
                    <apiname>GetOp</apiname>, <apiname>UpsertOp</apiname>) structures along with the
                    <apiname>Bucket.Do</apiname> method.</p><p>The <codeph>*Op</codeph> structures
                work by accepting the same parameters that are accepted by the individual methods.
                Following the execution of the <apiname>Do</apiname> method against the list of
                    <codeph>*Op</codeph> structures, the remaining fields will be filled out with
                the results of the operations.</p><p>Here is an example that shows how to batch two
                    <apiname>Insert</apiname>
            operations</p><codeblock outputclass="language-go">var items []gocb.BulkOp
items = append(items, &amp;gocb.InsertOp{Key: "document_name_1", Value: "Hello World 1"})
items = append(items, &amp;gocb.InsertOp{Key: "document_name_2", Value: "Hello World 2"})
err := bucket.Do(items)</codeblock>Note
            that you may batch operations of different types into the client.<note>Ensure that the
                    <parmname>error</parmname> field of each operation object is inspected, and note
                that some operations may fail while others may succeed. Even if the
                    <apiname>Do</apiname> method returns <codeph>nil</codeph> as its error, some
                errors may have still occurred.</note></section>
        <section><title>Modifying Expiration</title>A document's <xref
                href="../core-operations.dita#devguide_kvcore_generic/expiry"
                >expiration</xref> time may be modified using the <apiname>Bucket.Touch</apiname>
            method<codeblock>myBucket.Touch("document_id", 500)</codeblock></section>
        <section><title>Sub-Document Operations</title><note type="tip">Sub-Document API is available starting Couchbase Server version 4.5. See <xref href="../subdocument-operations.dita#subdoc-operations"/> for
                an overview.</note>
            <p>Sub-document operations save network bandwidth by allowing you to
            specify <i>paths</i> of a document to be retrieved or updated. The document is parsed on
            the server and only the relevant sections (indicated by <i>paths</i>) are transferred
            between client and server. You can execute <xref
                href="../subdocument-operations.dita#subdoc-operations"
                >sub-document</xref> operations in the Golang SDK using the
                <apiname>Bucket.MutateIn</apiname>, and <apiname>Bucket.LookupIn</apiname>
                methods.<codeblock>frag, err := bucket.LookupIn("document_id").
	Get("path.to.get").
	Exists("check.path.exists").Execute()
var fragValue interface{}
err = frag.Content("path.to.get", &amp;fragValue)
if frag.Exists("check.path.exists") {
	// ...
}</codeblock></p><p>Each
                of these methods accepts a <parmname>key</parmname> as its mandatory first argument
                and returns a builder object which can be used to add one or more <i>command
                    specifications</i> specifying an operation and a document field operand. To
                submit the operation, invoke the <apiname>Execute()</apiname> method on the builder,
                which returns an <apiname>DocumentFragment</apiname> that contains the results and
                contents of the paths (where applicable).</p><p>You can use the
                    <apiname>Get()</apiname> or <apiname>Exists()</apiname> methods on the builder
                object returned by <apiname>LookupIn</apiname>. <apiname>Get</apiname> will instruct
                the server to return the <i>contents</i> of the path, whereas
                    <apiname>Exists</apiname> will merely check if the path exists.</p><p>For
                operations which return values, you may use the
                    <apiname>DocumentFragment.Content</apiname> or
                    <apiname>DocumentFragment.ContentByIndex</apiname> methods to retrieve the
                actual value. These methods accept the name (or index) of the path to retrieve, and
                a value pointer that will be populated with the contents of the path. Like
                    <apiname>Bucket.Get</apiname>, the value pointer should be of a type capable of
                conversion from the serialized JSON.</p><p>For mutation operations, you may specify
                the <xref
                    href="../core-operations.dita#devguide_kvcore_generic/expiry"
                    >expiration</xref> time and <xref
                    href="../concurrent-mutations-cluster.dita#concept_iq4_bts_zs">CAS</xref>
                alongside the document ID to
                retrieve<codeblock>bucket.MutateIn("document_id", cas, 300).
	Upsert("email", "user@site.com", false).
	AddUnique("sessions.active", "0xeadbeef", true).
	Counter("sessions.loginCount", 1, true).
	Execute()</codeblock>The
                above shows some mutation using the subdocument API via
                    <apiname>Bucket.MutateIn</apiname>. The methods of the returned builder objects
                may accept a final boolean parameter indicating whether the path's <xref
                    href="../subdocument-operations.dita#subdoc-operations/subdoc-create-parents"
                    >parents should be created</xref> if they do not exist.</p></section>
        <section>
            <title>Atomic Document Modifications</title>
            <p>You may perform atomic document modifications on special document types: You can use
                    <apiname>Bucket.Counter</apiname> for <xref
                    href="../core-operations.dita#devguide_kvcore_generic/devguide_kvcore_counter_generic"
                    >counters</xref>:<codeblock>newValue, cas, err := myBucket.Counter("counter_document", 1, 100, 300)</codeblock>Will
                increment the value of <codeph>counter_document</codeph> by 1. If the document does
                not exist, it will be created with an initial value of 100. The <xref
                    href="../core-operations.dita#devguide_kvcore_generic/expiry"
                    >expiration time</xref> for the document is set to 300 seconds.</p>
            <p>Upon successful completion, the <apiname>Counter</apiname> method returns the new
                value of the document.</p>
        </section>
        <section><title>Specifying Durability Requirements</title><p><xref
                    href="../durability.dita#concept_gyg_14s_zs">Durability
                    requirements</xref> allow you to place constraints on the success of a mutation
                based on how redundant the document is. In the Go SDK you should use various
                    <codeph>*Dura()</codeph> functions which allow you to specify durability
                requirements. Methods such as <apiname>Bucket.Upsert</apiname> and
                    <apiname>Bucket.Replace</apiname> have their <codeph>*Dura</codeph> variants as
                    <apiname>Bucket.UpsertDura</apiname> and <apiname>Bucket.ReplaceDura</apiname>.
                The durability-enabled variants function like their simple counterparts, but also
                block until the durability requirement is achieved by requiring <i>two additional
                    arguments</i>, indicating the persistence and replication of the performed
                mutation:<codeblock>myBucket.UpsertDura("document_id", "value", 0, 1, 2)</codeblock></p>The
            above snippet will perform an upsert operation with a <i>persist-to</i> of 2 and a
                <i>replicate-to</i> of 2</section>
        <section id="non-json">
            <title>Non-JSON Documents</title>
            <p>The term Non-JSON documents refers to any kind of document which, when stored on the
                server in serialized form, cannot be parsed as valid JSON. While non-JSON encodings
                may offer more CPU and space efficiency for certain documents, some Couchbase
                services (such as Query) may not be able to search or query non-JSON documents.</p>
            <p>In the Go SDK you can either use an existing <codeph>[]byte</codeph> (in which case
                the contents will be stored as-is) or implement the <apiname>Transcoder</apiname>
                interface to automatically convert items of given types to your own format.</p>
            <p>The snippet below impelements a <apiname>Transcoder</apiname> which adds Zlib
                compression to serialized
                JSON<codeblock>type ZlibJsonTranscoder struct {
}

const FmtZLib = 1&lt;&lt;24 // i.e. FmtPrivate

func (ZlibJsonTranscoder) Decode(content []byte, formatFlags uint32, out interface{}) error {
	if ((formatFlags &amp; FmtZLib) != 0) {
		r, err := zlib.NewReader(bytes.NewReader(content))
		if err != nil {
			return err
		}
		jsonDecoder := json.NewDecoder(r)
		return jsonDecoder.Decode(out)
	} else {
		return gocb.DefaultTranscoder{}.Decode(content, formatFlags, out)
	}
}

func (ZlibJsonTranscoder) Encode(input interface{}) (encoded []byte, flags uint32, err error) {
	// Always compress
	buf := bytes.NewBuffer([]byte{})
	zw := zlib.NewWriter(buf)
	e := json.NewEncoder(zw)
	err = e.Encode(input)
	zw.Flush()
	log.Printf("Buffer is %d bytes long\n", buf.Len())
	return buf.Bytes(), FmtZLib, err
}</codeblock>The
                above example makes use of the <i>private flag</i>, so as to disambiguate it from
                    <xref href="../nonjson.dita#devguide_nonjson/table_wrc_2nb_bt">other recognized
                    SDK value formats</xref>. When encoding a value (to be stored on the server) it
                applies the flag. When retrieving the value, it checks for the presence of that flag
                and decodes it as Zlib-compressed JSON. If the flag is absent, it delegates the
                decoding to the default transcoder in the Go SDK.</p>
            <p>To actually use the transcoder, you can use the
                    <apiname>Bucket.SetTranscoder</apiname>
                function<codeblock>bucket.SetTranscoder(ZlibJsonTranscoder{})</codeblock></p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
