<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_bhv_nhq_44">
    <title>N1QL Queries Using the Go SDK with Couchbase Server</title>
    <titlealts><navtitle>N1QL from the SDK</navtitle></titlealts>
 <conbody>
        <note>See <xref href="../n1ql-query.dita#toplevel">Couchbase Developer
                documentation for a quick intro to developing with N1QL</xref></note>
        <section>
            <title>Simple Queries</title>
            <p>You can issue N1QL queries by first creating a <apiname>N1qlQuery</apiname> via
                    <apiname>gocb.N1qlN1qlQuery()</apiname>, and submitting the query to
                    <apiname>Bucket.ExecuteN1qlQuery</apiname></p>
            <p>The following example shows how to send a simple N1QL query:</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-go">myQuery := gocb.NewN1qlQuery("SELECT * FROM default")
rows, err := myBucket.ExecuteN1qlQuery(myQuery, nil)
var row interface{}
for rows.Next(&amp;row) {
    fmt.Printf("Row: %+v\n", row)
}
if err = rows.Close(); err != nil {
    fmt.Printf("Couldn't get all the rows: %s\n", err);
}</codeblock>
            <p>The returned value (<apiname>QueryResults</apiname>) may be iterated over using the
                    <apiname>QueryResults.Next()</apiname> method, which may be passed a pointer to
                an object which may be converted from each row. You may use an empty interface or a
                custom object containing JSON tags. Note that the JSON fields in the row are
                controlled by the query string itself: See <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/devguide-examples/blob/server-4.5/go/query-marshalling-rest.go"
                    format="html" scope="external"/> for an example of using typed query rows.</p>
        </section>
        <section><title>Querying with Placeholders</title>You can use N1QL <xref
                href="../n1ql-query.dita#toplevel/devguide-named-placeholders"
                >placeholders</xref> in the query. Placeholders allow you to specify variable
            constraints for an otherwise constant query. To use placeholders, insert the
            placeholders themselves in the query string - these may be positional (e.g.
                <codeph>$1</codeph>, <codeph>$2</codeph>, etc.) or named (e.g.
            <codeph>$age</codeph>, <codeph>$lname</codeph>, etc). To set the value for the
            placeholders, construct an object of an appropriate type and pass it as the second
            argument to the <apiname>ExecuteN1qlQuery()</apiname> method:<ul id="ul_ptm_w3p_fw">
                <li>For positional placeholders, pass an array. <codeph>$1</codeph> refers to the
                    the first array element, and so on.</li>
                <li>For named placeholders, pass a Map. The Map keys should match up to the named
                    placeholders, without the sigil (<codeph>$</codeph>). To specify a value for the
                        <codeph>$age</codeph> placeholder, the Map should contain a value for
                        <codeph>age</codeph>.</li>
            </ul><p>Note that placeholder values may be anything JSON serializable - meaning things
                such as Maps and arrays are
            accepted.</p><codeblock>myQuery := gocb.NewN1qlQuery("SELECT airportname, city, country FROM `travel-sample` " +
	"WHERE type='airport' AND city=$1 ")
myParams = append(myParams, []interface{}{"Reno"})
rows, err := bucket.ExecuteN1qlQuery(myQuery, myParams)</codeblock></section>
        <section>
            <title>Query Options</title>
            <p>You may configure the <apiname>N1qlQuery</apiname> object with various options to
                control query behavior. These options may be configured using various setter/getting
                    methods<ul id="ul_bh2_3mp_fw">
                    <li><apiname>N1qlQuery.Adhoc()</apiname> controls whether the query will be
                            <xref href="../n1ql-query.dita#toplevel/prepare-stmts"
                            >prepared</xref>.</li>
                    <li><apiname>N1qlQuery.Timeout()</apiname> allows you to set the per-query
                        timeout. This is useful for long-running queries</li>
                    <li><apiname>N1qlQuery.Consistency()</apiname> allows you to modify the query
                        index <xref href="../n1ql-query.dita#toplevel/consistency"
                            >consistency</xref>.<codeblock>query.Consistency(gocb.RequestPlus)</codeblock></li>
                </ul></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Index Creation</title>
            <p>In order to query a bucket, it must have an index defined. You can create indexes
                using raw N1QL statements (e.g. <xref
                    href="../../n1ql/n1ql-language-reference/createindex.dita#concept_npk_mth_rq"/>)
                or via the Go SDK's <xref href="managing-clusters.dita">cluster
                    management interface</xref></p>
        </section>
     
 </conbody>
</concept>
