<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="go-sample-app-backend">
  <title>Go Sample App backend tutorial</title>
  <titlealts><navtitle>Sample App backend in Go</navtitle></titlealts>
  <shortdesc>The Go SDK tutorial bridges the gap between simple and advanced concepts by walking through a complete web application.</shortdesc>
    <body>

        <section>
            <p>The full source code for the tutorial is available <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-golang/" scope="external"
                    format="html"> on GitHub couchbaselabs/try-cb-golang</xref>.
                The primary focus of the tutorial is to explain the
                function and theory behind the Couchbase Java client and how it works together with Couchbase Server, and especially new features in versions 4.0/4.5 like <codeph>N1QL</codeph>, <codeph>FTS</codeph> and <codeph>sub-document</codeph>. It makes use of the <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> data set. The code that generates the web application is provided with the source code,
                but is not discussed in this tutorial.
            </p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Specific Go prerequisites and set up</title>
            <p> In addition to the prerequisites mentionned in <xref
                    href="../sample-application.dita"/>, you'll need: <ul>
                    <li>Go 1.6+</li>
                </ul></p>
            <p> To get set up for the tutorial proper, follow these steps: <ul>
                    <li><codeph>mkdir try-cb-golang</codeph></li>
                    <li><codeph>cd try-cb-golang</codeph></li>
                    <li><codeph>export GOPATH=$PWD</codeph></li>
                    <li><codeph>go get github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-golang</codeph></li>
                    <li><codeph>cd src/github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-golang</codeph></li>
                    <li>if you don't want to connect to localhost, change the configuration in
                            <codeph>main.go</codeph> (eg. <codeph>cbConnStr</codeph>) .</li>
                    <li><codeph>go run main.go</codeph></li>
                    <li>You should now be able to access the UI on <i>localhost:8080</i></li>
                </ul></p>
            <note type="note">
                <p>If you want to code it yourself, there's currently no "fill-in-the-blanks" branch so you'll have to delete method bodies and try to take it from there.</p>
            </note>

            <note type="tip"> This tutorial focuses on querying through N1QL and FTS rather than
                views. If you want information about using views, see the following resources: <ul>
                    <li>General Information about views: <xref
                            href="../../architecture/incremental-map-reduce-views.dita"/>
                    </li>
                    <li>Querying views:<xref
                            href="../../indexes/querying-using-map-reduce-views.dita"/></li>
                </ul></note>
    </section>
        <section>
            <title>Walking Through the API</title>
            <p>The following sections lead you through the primary functions of the sample
                application. All of the REST API application code is in the <codeph>main.go</codeph>
                file. The following shows you how to program with the various features and services
                of Couchbase including: <b>connecting</b> to a cluster and bucket, <b>key/value</b>
                iteraction, document <b>query through N1QL</b> and <b>full text searches</b>.</p>
        </section>
        <section><title>Configure and Bootstrap the SDK</title>
            <p><b>Where</b>: <codeph>main()()</codeph></p>
            <p><b>Goals</b>: Connecting to the <codeph>Cluster</codeph> and getting a reference to a
                    <codeph>Bucket</codeph>, learn to reuse it.</p>
            <p><b>Relevant Documentation Topics</b>: <xref href="managing-connections.dita"/></p>
            <p> The first step is to let the application connect to your cluster and obtain a
                reference to a <codeph>Bucket</codeph> (the Bucket is your entry point for the whole
                storage API). The <codeph>cbConnStr</codeph> variable defines the connection string
                including hostname and protocol for your cluster. The <codeph>cbBucket</codeph> and
                    <codeph>cbPassword</codeph> variables are used separately and get passed to
                    <codeph>OpenBucket</codeph> to actually establish a connection to your bucket. </p>
            <b>Connecting to the Cluster and Bucket</b>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-go">globalCluster, err = gocb.Connect(cbConnStr)
// error handling elided...

globalBucket, err = globalCluster.OpenBucket(cbBucket, cbPassword)
// error handling elided...</codeblock><p>
                Both bucket and cluster can be managed through the SDK as well (eg. add views or
                create new buckets), see <xref href="managing-clusters.dita"/> for more information.
            </p></section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Managing Users using Key/Value API</title>
            <p><b>Where</b>: <codeph>UserLogin() and UserSignup()</codeph></p>
            <p><b>Goals</b>: Use <codeph>Bucket</codeph> operations and discover the
                    <codeph>Document</codeph> API.</p>
            <p><b>Relevant Documentation Topics</b>: <xref href="document-operations.dita"/>, <xref
                    href="async-programming.dita"/>, <xref href="../subdocument-operations.dita"
                /></p>
            <p>Couchbase is a document oriented database which provides access to your data both
                through its document ID (for high performance access), as well as through views and
                N1QL (as powerful query languages).</p>
            <p>This is noticeable in the API, where the methods reflect Key/Value operations
                    (<codeph>RetrieveIn</codeph>, <codeph>Upsert</codeph>, etc...) and work with a
                    <codeph>Sub Document</codeph> interface that has an <codeph>id()</codeph> and
                requests specific content from the document. The default Document implementation
                accepts a simple representation of JSON as its content. </p>
            <b>Creating New Users</b>
            <p>A new user first goes through the <codeph>UserSignup()</codeph> method which recieves
                a POST of <codeph>username</codeph> and <codeph>password</codeph> encoded as a JSON
                object. After registering the user to Couchbase, it uses a JWT encoded version of
                the username to maintain the session. The JWT token is later used through further
                interaction to validate the user session and is created using a custom function
                    <codeph>createJwtToken()</codeph>.</p><note type="tip"> The
                    <codeph>"user::"</codeph> prefix is arbitrary to this application, this is just
                a convention that the application uses to obtain unique keys and have additional
                information in it, but the key could have been anything else (even sequence numbers
                or UUIDs).</note><p>Here comes the part where the Couchbase API is used to store the
                document. It's rather simple, the application uses an <codeph>Insert</codeph> method
                which stores the document, if the record already exists, an error is returned
                instead: </p><codeblock>globalBucket.Insert(userKey, user, 0).</codeblock><p> The
                resulting JSON data and confirmation is sent back to the client with a success, or
                an exception if it failed.</p><note type="tip">When it comes to storing a document,
                you have a choice of three methods: <ul>
                    <li><codeph>Insert</codeph> will only work if no document currently exists for
                        the given ID, otherwise a <codeph>ErrKeyExists</codeph> will be
                        returned.</li>
                    <li><codeph>Replace</codeph> on the contrary will only work if the document does
                        already exist (otherwise a <codeph>ErrKeyNotFound</codeph> is thrown).</li>
                    <li><codeph>Upsert</codeph> will always work, replacing or creating the document
                        as needed.</li>
                </ul></note><p>So the result just contains a JWT (Json WebToken) to identify the new
                user. If there is a problem, an error and non-successful status code will be
                returned to the application. But what is this <codeph>narration</codeph> object in
                the Result?</p><p>The frontend understands this second part of the Result, the
                narration, as something that it can display in a console, so that users of the
                application can directly get an idea of what is going on on the server side while
                browsing the app. It is similar to a log, but transmitted to the frontend.</p>
            <b>Checking Login by Getting the User's Document</b>
            <p>In the <codeph>UserLogin()</codeph> method, the application checks a User's
                credential and for that it needs to retrieve the corresponding document. Since user
                documents are identified by prefixing their username with <codeph>user::</codeph>,
                this is pretty simple. Using the sub-document
                    <codeph>LookupIn(…).Get("password")</codeph> the application can request only
                the precise values it needs from the document, in this case the password:
                </p><codeblock outputclass="language-go"><![CDATA[globalBucket.LookupIn(userKey).Get("password").Execute()]]></codeblock><p>
                If that particular key doesn't exist, the <codeph>LookupIn()</codeph> method returns
                    <codeph>ErrKeyNotFound</codeph>. This is useful to check whether the user exists
                at all.</p><p> Otherwise it's just a matter of checking the hashed password with the
                one provided by the user, and responding accordingly.</p></section>
        
        <section>
            <title>A First N1QL Query: Finding Airports</title>
            <p><b>Where</b>: <codeph>FlightSearch()</codeph></p>
            <p><b>Goals</b>: Use N1QL and the DSL to perform your first <codeph>SELECT</codeph> on Couchbase Server.</p>
            <p><b>Relevant Documentation Topics</b>: <xref href="n1ql-queries-with-sdk.dita"/>.</p>
            <p> In the SDK, there is an <codeph>ExecuteN1qlQuery</codeph> method, which accepts a
                    <codeph>N1qlQuery</codeph> structure and performs a N1QL query against the
                cluster.</p>
            <note type="tip">N1QL is a super-set of SQL, so if you're familiar with SQL you'll feel at ease.</note>
            <p>Statements can be provided either in string form or using the DSL.</p>
            <p>The applications needs to select just the airport name from relevant documents in our
                    <codeph>bucket</codeph>. Since it wants to filter relevant document on a
                criteria that depends on the input length, the query starts with "SELECT airportname
                FROM `travel-sample`".</p>
            <p>Then the application can choose the correct fields to look into depending on the
                length of the input. The user can enter either a ICAO or FAA code or a full name of
                an airport to search for, so the application accommodates each scenario as it builds
                the N1QL statement. It also uses wildcards (<codeph>%</codeph>) in the statement to
                give a free form expression: </p>
            
            <codeblock outputclass="language-go">var queryStr string
if len(searchKey) == 3 {
  queryStr = fmt.Sprintf("SELECT airportname FROM `travel-sample` WHERE faa='%s'", strings.ToUpper(searchKey))
} else if len(searchKey) == 4 &amp;&amp; searchKey == strings.ToUpper(searchKey) {
  queryStr = fmt.Sprintf("SELECT airportname FROM `travel-sample` WHERE icao ='%s'", searchKey)
} else {
  queryStr = fmt.Sprintf("SELECT airportname FROM `travel-sample` WHERE airportname like '%s%%'", searchKey)
}</codeblock>
            
            <p>The statement is ready! You can execute this statement by wrapping it in a
                    <codeph>N1qlQuery()</codeph> using <codeph>gocb.NewN1qlQuery(queryStr)</codeph>
                and invoking <codeph>globalBucket.ExecuteN1qlQuery()</codeph>. Here it is very
                simple, no placeholders and no particular tuning of the query is necessary, so the
                simple method: <codeph>globalBucket.ExecuteN1qlQuery(q, nil)</codeph> will be
                used.</p>
            <p>The results of the query are return in a <codeph>result</codeph> object, which can
                then be iterated over to build an array of the results:</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-go">respData.Data = []jsonAirport{}
var airport jsonAirport
for rows.Next(&amp;airport) {
	respData.Data = append(respData.Data, airport)
	airport = jsonAirport{}
}</codeblock>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>More Complex Queries: Finding Routes</title>
            <p><b>Where</b>: <codeph>FlightSearch()</codeph></p>
            <p><b>Goals</b>: Let the DSL guide you into making more complex N1QL queries.</p>
            <p><b>Relevant Documentation Topics</b>: <xref href="n1ql-queries-with-sdk.dita"/>.</p>
            <p>In this class, we have two more complex queries. The first aims at transforming the
                human-readable airport name for the departure and arrival airports to FAA codes:</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-sql">SELECT faa AS fromAirport FROM `travel-sample` WHERE airportname = "Los Angeles Intl"
  UNION SELECT faa AS toAirport FROM `travel-sample` WHERE airportname = "San Francisco Intl"</codeblock>
            <p>The second aims at constructing the result set of available flight paths that connect
                the two airports: </p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-sql">SELECT a.name, s.flight, s.utc, r.sourceairport, r.destinationairport, r.equipment
  FROM `travel-sample` AS r
  UNNEST r.schedule AS s
  JOIN `travel-sample` AS a ON KEYS r.airlineid
  WHERE r.sourceairport = "LAX" AND r.destinationairport = "SFO" AND s.day = 6
  ORDER BY a.name ASC</codeblock>
            
            <note type="tip"> Yes, you read that right, N1QL can do joins (on a single bucket or on
                several). It works as long as the "foreign key" described by <codeph>ON
                    KEYS</codeph> clause can be mapped to a document's key in the joined bucket. </note>
            <p>A specificity of N1QL that can be seen in the second statement is
                    <codeph>UNNEST</codeph>. It extracts a sub-JSON and puts it at the same root
                level as the bucket (so its possible to do joins on each element in this sub-JSON as
                if they were entries in a left-hand side bucket). </p>
            <p>For this final step, try to obtain the equivalent of these statements via the DSL and
                see how it guides you through the possibilities of the query language. </p>
        </section>
        
        
        <section>
            <title>Indexing the Data: N1QL &amp; GSI</title>
            <p><b>Goals</b>: Use the Index DSL to make sure data is indexed for N1QL to query it.</p>
            <p>Index management is a bit more advanced (and is already done when loading the
                sample), so now that you've learned about N1QL, you can have a look at it. There is
                no code example in this application, but some samples are provided below for your
                reference.</p>
            <p>For N1QL to work, you must first ensure that at least a
                <codeph>Primary Index</codeph> has been created. For that you can use the DSL from the <codeph>Index</codeph> class:
            </p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-go">q := gocb.NewN1qlQuery("CREATE PRIMARY INDEX ON `travel-sample`")
_, err := globalBucket.ExecuteN1qlQuery(q, nil)</codeblock>
            <p>You can also create secondary indexes on specific fields of the JSON, for better
                performance: </p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-go">q := gocb.NewN1qlQuery("CREATE INDEX `def_username` ON `travel-sample`(username)")
_, err := globalBucket.ExecuteN1qlQuery(q, nil)</codeblock>
            <p>In this case, give a name to your index, specify the target bucket AND the field(s)
                in the JSON to index. </p>
        </section>
        <section><title>Full Text Search: Finding Hotels</title><p><b>Where</b>:
                    <codeph>HotelSearch()</codeph></p><p><b>Goals</b>: Use FTS to search for
                matching Hotels. Use sub-document API to fetch the relevant data for each
                    hit.</p><p><b>Relevant Documentation Topics</b>: <xref
                    href="full-text-searching-with-sdk.dita"/>, <xref
                    href="../subdocument-operations.dita"/>.</p><p>In this service, hotels are
                searched for using more fuzzy criterias, like the content of the address or the
                description of an hotel. This is done using Full Text Search (FTS). When some
                results match the specified criteria, only the relevant data for each result to be
                displayed in the UI is fetched using the subdocument API. </p><p>Let's have a look
                at the <codeph>HotelSearch()</codeph> method. It accepts two parameters via HTTP,
                    <codeph>location</codeph> and <codeph>description</codeph>, which are the two
                possible refining criteria for a hotel
                search.</p><codeblock outputclass="language-go">qp := cbft.NewConjunctionQuery(cbft.NewTermQuery("hotel").Field("type"))</codeblock><p>A
                    <codeph>ConjunctionQuery</codeph> allows you to combine multiple FTS queries
                into one, as an AND operation. That search always includes an exact match criteria
                that restricts it to the <codeph>hotel</codeph> data type (as reflected in the
                    <codeph>type</codeph> field of the JSON document).</p><p>If the user provided a
                location keyword, a second component is added to the FTS query that will look for
                that keyword in several address-related fields of the document. This is done in an
                OR fashion, using a <codeph>Disjunction</codeph> this
                time:</p><pre>if location != "" &amp;&amp; location != "*" {
	qp.And(cbft.NewDisjunctionQuery(
		cbft.NewMatchPhraseQuery(location).Field("country"),
		cbft.NewMatchPhraseQuery(location).Field("city"),
		cbft.NewMatchPhraseQuery(location).Field("state"),
		cbft.NewMatchPhraseQuery(location).Field("address"),
	))
}</pre><p>Similarly,
                if a description keyword was provided by the user, the freeform text is inspected of
                the <codeph>description</codeph> field and <codeph>name</codeph> field of the
                document:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-go">if description != "" &amp;&amp; description != "*" {
	qp.And(cbft.NewDisjunctionQuery(
		cbft.NewMatchPhraseQuery(description).Field("description"),
		cbft.NewMatchPhraseQuery(description).Field("name"),
	))
}</codeblock><p>The
                    <codeph>MatchPhraseQuery</codeph> can contain several words and will search for
                variations of the words (eg. including plural forms or words with the same
                root...).</p><p>The compound FTS query is now ready to be executed. A
                    <codeph>SearchQuery</codeph> object is built out of it, which also determines
                which FTS index to use ("hotel") and allows you to set various parameters (like a
                limit of maximum 100 hits to return). The query is logged (and kept for narration)
                then executed, returning an <codeph>SearchQueryResult</codeph>
            object:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-go">q := gocb.NewSearchQuery("travel-search", qp).
	Limit(100)
rows, err := globalBucket.ExecuteSearchQuery(q)</codeblock>The
            FTS results are then iterated over, and the document corresponding to each result is
            fetched. In actuality, only the parts of the document that will be displayed in the UI
            are required. This is where the sub-document API comes in.<p>The sub-document API allows
                you to fetch or mutate only a set of paths inside a JSON document, without having to
                send the whole document back and forth. This can save network bandwidth if the
                document is large and the parts that we're interested in are small. So here the
                results of the FTS search are iterated over and appropriate subdoc calls are
                triggered:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-go">for _, hit := range rows.Hits() {
	res, _ := globalBucket.LookupIn(hit.Id).
		Get("country").
		Get("city").
		Get("state").
		Get("address").
		Get("name").
		Get("description").
		Execute()
	// We ignore errors here since some hotels are missing various
	//  pieces of data, but every key exists since it came from FTS.

	var hotel jsonHotel
	res.Content("country", &amp;hotel.Country)
	res.Content("city", &amp;hotel.City)
	res.Content("state", &amp;hotel.State)
	res.Content("address", &amp;hotel.Address)
	res.Content("name", &amp;hotel.Name)
	res.Content("description", &amp;hotel.Description)
	respData.Data = append(respData.Data, hotel)
}</codeblock>Each
            FTS result is represented as an <codeph>ISearchQueryRow</codeph> which exposes the
            document's <codeph>Id</codeph>. The sub-document API can then be used to fetch data
                (<codeph>bucket.LookupIn&lt;T>(documentId)</codeph>) and specify what parts we want:
            name, description, address, city, state and country. The application then
                <codeph>Execute()</codeph> the sub-document query. In the rest of the code, the
            address-related fields are aggregated together and the data obtained is returned as a
            JSON object for use in the front-end.</section>
    </body>
</topic>
