<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept2798">
  <title>Creating a welcome page</title><shortdesc>The welcome page is the first page displayed when someone goes to the root of your site.</shortdesc>
	<conbody>
		<p>The
			welcome page doesn't require any interaction with Couchbase Server, so you just need to
			tell Express to render the template for the welcome page:</p>
		<section><title>beer_app.js (welcome
				page):</title><codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">function welcome(req, res) {
  res.render('welcome');
}
app.get('/welcome', welcome);</codeblock><p>The <filepath>welcome.html</filepath> template is actually a Jade template that resides inside
				the <filepath>views</filepath> directory. The <filepath>welcome.jade</filepath> template
				looks like this:</p></section>
		<section>
			<title>views/welcome.jade:</title>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-jade">extends layout
block content
  .span6
    .span12
      h4 Browse all Beers
      a(href="/beers" class="btn btn-warning") Show me all beers
      hr
    .span12
      h4 Browse all Breweries
      a(href="/breweries" class="btn btn-info") Take me to the breweries
  .span6
    .span12
      h4 About this App
      p Welcome to Couchbase!
      p
        | This application helps you to get started on application
        | development with Couchbase. It shows how to create, update and
        | delete documents and how to work with JSON documents.</codeblock>
			<p>The template provides some links to the brewery and beer pages. An interesting thing
				about this template is that it inherits from the common <filepath>layout.jade</filepath>
				template. All pages in the beer app have a common header and footer to them — with only
				their body differing. This is the <filepath>layout.jade</filepath> template:</p>
		</section>
		<section><title>views/layout.jade:</title><codeblock outputclass="language-jade">!!!5
html(lang="en")
  head
    meta(charset="utf-8")
    title Couchbase Node.js Beer Sample
    meta(name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0")
    meta(name="description" content="The Couchbase Node.js Beer-Sample App")
    meta(name="author" content="Couchbase, Inc. 2013")

    link(href="/css/bootstrap.min.css" rel="stylesheet")
    link(href="/css/beersample.css" rel="stylesheet")
    link(href="/css/bootstrap-responsive.min.css" rel="stylesheet")

    //HTML5 shim, for IE6-8 support of HTML5 elements
    //if lt IE 9
      script(src="http://html5shim.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/html5.js")

  body
    .container-narrow
      .masthead
        ul.nav.nav-pills.pull-right
          li: a(href="/welcome") Home
          li: a(href="/beers") Beers
          li: a(href="/breweries") Breweries
        h2.muted Couchbase Beer Sample
      hr

      .row-fluid
        .span12
          block content
      hr

      .footer
        p &amp;copy; Couchbase, Inc. 2013

    script(src="/js/jquery.min.js")
    script(src="/js/beersample.js")</codeblock><p>The template provides some links to the brewery and beer pages (which are shown later).</p><p>If you start your app now, you should be able to navigate to http://localhost:1337/welcome and
				see the welcome page. You’ll get a 404 error if you try to visit any links for pages
				that haven't been implemented yet. If you downloaded the complete app, the links should
				work.</p></section>
	</conbody>
</concept>
