<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_i1l_kp3_kp">
 <title>Version 2.0 Beta</title>
 <shortdesc>The following release notes are for the first Beta release of the .NET Couchbase 2.0 SDK, the
  official SDK for creating applications using Couchbase Server with Microsoft .NET languages.
  This  release includes all new developer documentation, API reference, NuGet packages, and
  binaries. </shortdesc>
  <conbody>
   <section>
    <title>What's in this Release?</title>
    <ul id="ul_nnz_5q3_kp">
     <li>This release introduces a new document-centric API for working with JSON documents in
      Couchbase. The purpose of this API is to make it easier to perform CRUD operations on JSON
      documents and to provide a consistent programming interface for JSON documents across all of
      the Couchbase SDKs: Java, Node, Ruby, PHP and others.</li>
     <li>A completely rewritten .NET driver for connecting to and developing highly scalable NoSql
      applications using the .NET framework and Couchbase Server with minimal 3rd party
      dependencies.</li>
     <li>A new and improved, fluent View API for querying views in Couchbase. Views are a means of
      creating secondary and composite indexes, reductions, and filters over a set of keys
      by using MapReduce functions written in JavaScript.</li>
     <li>Support for encrypting data sent between client applications using the SDK and Couchbase
      server. This is done through Secure Socket Layer (SSL)  on all TCP and HTTP connections if the
      SSL is enabled on the client and the proper certificate is imported on the application
      servers.</li>
     <li>A new connection pool that while configurable, uses a much smaller number of connections
      than its predecessor.</li>
     <li>Experimental support for executing ad hoc N1QL queries against Couchbase buckets. N1QL is
      the new SQL-like language for querying JSON documents within Couchbase. </li>
    </ul>
   </section>
   <section><title>Known issues</title>
    <ul id="ul_rf4_2v3_kp">
     <li>While the SDK has gone through rigorous situational and feature testing, it hasn't yet
      achieved a passing score for all tests. There are a couple of outstanding issues that have yet
      to be addressed, specifically <xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/NCBC-551"
       format="html" scope="external">NCBC-551</xref> and <xref
        href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/NCBC-561" format="html" scope="external"
        >NCBC-561</xref>. These issues and the passing of the complete suite of situational and
      feature tests will be completed prior to GA.</li>
     <li>Being prerelease, there is a strong probability that public interfaces of some of the API's
      might change significantly before GA. </li>
     <li>A number of features available in 1.3.X have not yet been implemented in 2.0, for example:
      Bulk methods and the Management API's. These will be available for GA or in a post-GA
      release.</li>
     <li>Other features that are missing include replica reads and common flags (common types across
      all SDKs). These will also be released either at GA or in a subsequent release.</li>
    </ul></section>
  </conbody>
 
</concept>
