<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="kafka-3-intro">
    <title>Kafka Connector 3.0 Beta</title>
    <shortdesc>The Kafka connector provides functionality to stream, filter, and transform events from
    Couchbase Server to Kafka.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <note type="important"><p>This is a Beta version of the Kafka Connector 3.0 and is intended for development purposes only.
                We consider Beta releases to have some rough edges and bugs, and may change
                significantly before the final GA release. This release is <b>not supported</b> in
                production. </p><p>The Beta release does <b>not support</b> upgrading from an earlier version of Kafka
                Connector.</p></note>
        <p>The JDBC source connector allows you to import data from Couchbase Server into <xref
        href="https://kafka.apache.org" format="html" scope="external" >Kafka</xref> topics.</p>

        <p>Data is loaded efficiently and reliably using Couchbase's internal replication protocol, DCP. Every change to or deletion
        of the document generates a replication event, which is then sent to the configured Kafka topic. When copying data from a
        bucket, the connector loads only new or modified documents.</p>

        <section>
            <title>Compatibility</title>
            <p>Because the Kafka connector relies heavily on DCP, it is only compatible with Couchbase Server 3.0 and
            later.</p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Contributing</title>
            <p>Couchbase welcomes community contributions to the Kafka connector. The <xref
            href="https://github.com/couchbase/kafka-connect-couchbase" format="html" scope="external">Kafka Connector
            source code</xref> is available on GitHub.</p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
