<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="kafka3-release-notes">
    <title>Release Notes</title>
    <shortdesc>Release notes for the 3.0 version of the Kafka Connector. </shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <section>
            <title>Couchbase Kafka Connector 3.0.0 GA (14 December 2016)</title>
            <p>Version 3.0.0 is GA release. It brings documentation update, feature enhancements,
                and bug fixes.</p>
            <p><xref href="http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/kafka/3.0.0/kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0.zip" format="html" scope="external">kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0.zip</xref></p>
            <p><b>What's new in Kafka Connector 3.0.0</b></p>
            <p>
                <ul id="ul_qfx_wq2_3y">
                    <li>Kafka Connect - This release is based on <xref
                            href="http://docs.confluent.io/3.0.0/connect/intro.html" format="html"
                            scope="external">Kafka Connect</xref>, a mechanism in Apache Kafka 0.9
                        and higher versions for scalably and reliably streaming data between Apache
                        Kafka and other systems. <p>Here are some advantages for Ops teams: <ul
                                id="ul_ghy_s52_3y">
                                <li>Part of Kafka</li>
                                <li>One service to manage with connector configuration handled
                                    internally.</li>
                                <li>Unified connector control, monitoring, and metrics.</li>
                                <li>Easy to set up as a self-service system for developers and ETL
                                    team.</li>
                                <li>Integrated with any configuration management or container
                                    system.</li>
                            </ul></p><p>Here are some advantages for application developers and ETL
                            engineers: <ul id="ul_mmf_bv2_3y">
                                <li>Configuration-only solution for copying large scale data to/from
                                    Kafka.</li>
                                <li>Built for real-time ETL.</li>
                                <li>Out of the box tools such as <xref
                                        href="https://www.confluent.io/product/control-center/"
                                        format="html" scope="external">Confluent Control
                                        Center</xref> dashboards can visualize the complete data
                                    pipeline.</li>
                            </ul></p></li>
                    <li><b>Dynamic topology</b> - The Kafka Connector now handles rebalance and
                        failover scenarios. Adding and removing nodes to an active Couchbase Server
                        cluster no longer requires restarting the Kafka Connector. (<xref
                            href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-7" format="html"
                            scope="external">KAFKAC-7</xref>)</li>
                    <li><b>Node-aware partition distribution</b> - For efficiency reasons, the
                        Couchbase Kafka Connector 3.0 uses the Couchbase Server cluster map to send
                        DCP stream partitions to Kafka tasks so that they use the smallest number of
                        DCP socket connections.</li>
                    <li>Connector <b>maintains replication state</b> and can resume streaming from
                        where it left off after a temporary disconnection. (<xref
                            href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-47" format="html"
                            scope="external">KAFKAC-47</xref>)</li>
                    <li><b>Faster serialization</b> - Couchbase sequence numbers are now persisted
                        as Kafka Connect <xref
                            href="http://docs.confluent.io/2.0.0/connect/userguide.html#offsets"
                            format="html" scope="external">offsets</xref> instead of Zookeeper
                        nodes, thus making the serializer faster. (<xref
                            href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-44" format="html"
                            scope="external">KAFKAC-44</xref>) </li>
                    <li><b>SSL support</b> - You can enable SSL support by simply setting a
                        configuration property. (<xref
                            href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-52" format="html"
                            scope="external">KAFKAC-52</xref>)</li>
                    <li><b>Bulk mode for snapshot transmission</b> - You can now enable bulk mode
                        for DCP Snapshots, so that the offsets are only committed in Kafka once the
                        entire snapshot is received. This avoids creating duplicates caused by
                        retransmission of mutations in more than one DCP snapshot. (<xref
                            href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-50" format="html"
                            scope="external">KAFKAC-50</xref>)</li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Couchbase Kafka Connector 3.0.0 BETA (22 November 2016)</title>
            <p>Version 3.0.0-BETA is pre-release version of the 3.0.0. It brings documentation
                update, feature enhancements and bug fixes</p>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-52" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-52</xref>:
                    Support for SSL connections
                </li>
                <li>
                    Update dependencies: dcp-client to 0.7.0, and confluent libraries up to versions shipped with 3.1.1
                </li>
                <li>
                    Cleanup various configuration workarounds for platform 3.0
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p><xref href="http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/kafka/3.0.0-BETA/kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0-BETA.zip" format="html" scope="external">kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0-BETA.zip</xref></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Couchbase Kafka Connector 3.0.0 DP4 (5 November 2016)</title>
            <p>Version 3.0.0-DP4 is the fourth developer preview of the 3.0.x series. </p>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-54" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-54</xref>:
                    Create example of using in Kafka Stream to process events from Couchbase
                </li>
                <li>
                    Rename internal classes, and make configuration more consistent with other connectors (e.g. instead
                    of timeout_ms, use timeout.ms)
                </li>
                <li>
                    Allow to override internal convertor into SourceRecord, and allow to inject Filter class to skip
                    events before writing into Kafka
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p><xref href="http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/kafka/3.0.0-DP4/kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0-DP4.zip" format="html" scope="external">kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0-DP4.zip</xref></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Couchbase Kafka Connector 3.0.0 DP3 (20 October 2016)</title>
            <p>Version 3.0.0-DP3 is the third developer preview of the 3.0.x series. It implements new features and also includes bug fixes to previous release.</p>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-50" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-50</xref>:
                    Allow to buffer DCP snapshots for consistent writes.
                </li>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-51" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-51</xref>:
                    Specify key for SourceRecord. Allows to use multiple Kafka partitions.
                </li>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-53" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-53</xref>:
                    Node-aware distribution of partitions for Tasks. Reduces amount of resources allocated on the server.
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p><xref href="http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/kafka/3.0.0-DP3/kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0-DP3.zip" format="html" scope="external">kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0-DP3.zip</xref></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Couchbase Kafka Connector 3.0.0 DP2 (24 September 2016)</title>
            <p>Version 3.0.0-DP2 is the second developer preview of the 3.0.x series. It improves configuration. And now
            can maintain replication state, which allow to resume transmission.</p>
            <p><xref href="http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/kafka/3.0.0-DP2/kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0-DP2.zip" format="html" scope="external">kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0-DP2.zip</xref></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Couchbase Kafka Connector 3.0.0 DP1 (6 September 2016)</title>
            <p>Version 3.0.0-DP1 is the first developer preview of the 3.0.x series.</p>
            <p><xref href="http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/kafka/3.0.0-DP1/kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0-DP1.zip" format="html" scope="external">kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0-DP1.zip</xref></p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
