<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_l11_ppm_pp">
	<title>Java SDK 2.1</title>
	<shortdesc>The Couchbase Java SDK provides synchronous and asynchronous (reactive) interfaces that
		allow your applications to efficiently interact with a Couchbase Server cluster. It provides
		capabilities to store, update, and retrieve documents in the database and query the database
		by using N1QL.</shortdesc>
	<conbody>

		<p>In general, every synchronous method has a corresponding asynchronous method. The SDK also
			has first-class support for Java 8.</p>

		<p>Here are some samples of typical operations you can accomplish with the SDK:</p>

		<section>
			<title>Connecting</title>

			<p>You can connect to one or more buckets on your cluster in a very concise way, while at
				the same time making sure that the underlying resources like thread pools and sockets
				are reused as much as possible:</p>

			<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// Connect to localhost
Cluster cluster = CouchbaseCluster.create();

// Open the default bucket and the "beer-sample" one
Bucket defaultBucket = cluster.openBucket();
Bucket beerSampleBucket = cluster.openBucket("beer-sample");

// Disconnect and clear all allocated resources
cluster.disconnect();]]></codeblock>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Storing Documents</title>

			<p>JSON is a first-class citizen, but the SDK also provides support for any other type of
				objects (such as serialized Java objects or raw byte streams). This example shows how
				you can create a JSON document and insert it synchronously:</p>

			<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[JsonObject user = JsonObject.empty()
  .put("firstname", "Walter")
  .put("lastname", "White")
  .put("job", "chemistry teacher")
  .put("age", 50);
JsonDocument stored = bucket.upsert(JsonDocument.create("walter", user));]]></codeblock>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Retrieving Documents</title>

			<p>You can also retrieve your stored documents in a variety of ways. This first example
				synchronously loads a document identified by its ID and prints out a field of the JSON.
				Notice how the JSON decoding is done for you:</p>

			<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[JsonDocument walter = bucket.get("walter");
System.out.println("Found: " + walter.getString("firstname"));]]></codeblock>

			<p>That doesn't impress you? Asynchronous, reactive APIs are also exposed. The following
				example uses Java 8 to showcase a more advanced query:</p>

			<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[bucket
  .async()
  .get("beer")
  .onErrorResumeNext(bucket.async().getFromReplica("beer", ReplicaMode.ALL))
  .first()
  .map(doc -> doc.content().getString("name"))
  .timeout(2, TimeUnit.SECONDS)
  .doOnError(System.err::println)
  .onErrorReturn(error -> "Not Found!");]]></codeblock>

			<p>This code snippet loads a document, falls back to load from replica nodes if an error
				happens, grabs the first of potentially many replica responses, and then extracts the
				beer name. Finally, a timeout is applied and more error handling (printing out the
				errors) is added as well. This gives you a glimpse of what's possible with our
				asynchronous, reactive methods that are always available. In fact, the synchronous calls
				are just convenience wrappers.</p>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Querying</title>

			<p>Couchbase Server has extensive support for querying (be it through views or the N1QL query
				language). The SDK provides various ways to query them. Here is how to query a view that
				gives us beers and breweries, filters out the beers, and prints their name:</p>

			<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[ViewResult result = bucket.query(ViewQuery.from("beers_and_breweries", "by_name"));

for (ViewRow row : result) {
    JsonDocument doc = row.document();

    if (doc.content().getString("type").equals("beer")) {
        System.out.println(doc.content().getString("name"));
    }
}]]></codeblock>

			<p>This can also be done asynchronously:</p>

			<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[bucket
    .async()
    .query(ViewQuery.from("beers_and_breweries", "by_name"))
    .flatMap(AsyncViewResult::rows)
    .flatMap(AsyncViewRow::document)
    .filter(doc -> doc.content().getString("type").equals("beer"))
    .subscribe(doc -> System.out.println(doc.content().getString("name")));]]></codeblock>

			<p>Here is how to run a N1QL query—notice how nicely the domain-specific language (DSL)
				leads you to your final query:</p>

			<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[bucket
    .async()
    .query(Query.simple(select("*").from("beer-sample").limit(10)))
    .flatMap(AsyncQueryResult::rows)
    .toBlocking()
    .forEach(row -> System.out.println(row.value()));]]></codeblock>

			<p>The query selects all documents from the <codeph>beer-sample</codeph> bucket and prints
				the content of each row. Of course, synchronous execution is also available.</p>

		</section>

	</conbody>
</concept>
