<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept2677">
	<title>Working with N1QL</title>
	<shortdesc>You can query a bucket using the N1QL query language.</shortdesc>
	<conbody>
		<p><note>N1QL is currently experimental and may change in subsequent versions.</note></p>

		<p>To query via N1QL, you need to make sure to have the query engine downloaded, started and
			pointed to your cluster. For more information about using N1QL, see <xref
				href="http://query.couchbase.com" format="html" scope="external" />.</p>

		<p>Next, you need to enable N1QL either through a system property or through the environment
			builder. This step will go away once N1QL is fully integrated into the server:</p>
		<p>To enable N1QL by using a system property:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// Through a system property
System.setProperty("com.couchbase.queryEnabled", "true");

Cluster cluster = CouchbaseCluster.create();
Bucket bucket = cluster.openBucket("beer-sample");]]></codeblock>

<p>To enable N1QL by using  the builder:</p>
<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// Through the builder
Cluster cluster = CouchbaseCluster.create(DefaultCouchbaseEnvironment
    .builder()
    .queryEnabled(true)
    .build());

Bucket bucket = cluster.openBucket("beer-sample");]]></codeblock>

		<p>Finally, you are ready to run the various kinds of queries. All queries are composed at a
			minimum of a statement and optionally of N1QL additional parameters. The simplest form of
			query is just a raw string statement, or a domain-specific language (DSL) statement:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// raw string query
QueryResult queryResult =
   bucket.query(Query.simple("SELECT * FROM beer-sample LIMIT 10"));

// using the DSL
QueryResult query = bucket.query(select("*").from("beer-sample").limit(10));]]></codeblock>

		<p>The DSL provides a type-safe and intuitive way to perform queries. The
				<apiname>select()</apiname> method is a static import that kicks off a  BNF-aware DSL
			for N1QL. (BNF stands for Backus–Naur Form.) </p>

		<p>The query always returns a <apiname>QueryResult</apiname>, which aside from the actual
            <apiname>QueryRow</apiname>s also contains debug or error information if supplied.</p>

		<p><ul>
            <li><b>parseSuccess</b>: Returns true if the query could correctly be parsed. This
					information is available immediately even if the actual list of results takes more
					time to be computed and streamed to the client.</li>
            <li><b>finalSuccess</b>: Returns true if the whole query could be executed successfully, including
                retrieving all the results and streaming them to the client.</li>
			<li><b>allRows</b>: Contains all rows returned by the query, can be an empty list.</li>
            <li><b>rows</b>: Same as allRows but in an iterator form (the <apiname>QueryResult</apiname> itself is
                iterable).</li>
            <li><b>requestId</b>: The server-generated unique ID for this query (useful to find associated logs
                on the N1QL server).</li>
            <li><b>clientContextId</b>: User-provided identifier reflected in the server's response. This can be
                useful to group several queries (eg. in a kind of in-house transaction) and find all associated
                queries.</li>
			<li><b>info</b>: Returns a <apiname>JsonObject</apiname> containing metrics for the query (like number
                of results, processing time, etc...).</li>
			<li><b>errors</b>: Returns a list of <apiname>JsonObject</apiname> describing errors or warnings
					(if any occurred during execution).</li>
		</ul></p>

        <section><title>Querying Asynchronously</title>
            <p>Querying asynchronously is done through the <apiname>AsyncBucket</apiname> interface, obtained
                by calling <apiname>bucket.async()</apiname>. The API is pretty similar except everything is
                returned as an <apiname>Observable</apiname>. Some of the components of the query result (an
                <apiname>AsyncQueryResult</apiname>) can also be delayed and so returned as Observables. Only
                <apiname>requestId</apiname>, <apiname>clientContextId</apiname> and <apiname>parseSuccess</apiname>
                return immediately.</p>
		    <p>The following Java 8 code prints the found documents or errors as they come:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[bucket.async()
.query(select("*").from("beer-sample").limit(10))
.subscribe(result -> {
    result.errors()
        .subscribe(
            e -> System.err.println("N1QL Error/Warning: " + e),
            runtimeError -> runtimeError.printStackTrace()
        );
    result.rows()
        .map(row -> row.value())
        .subscribe(
            rowContent -> System.out.println(rowContent),
            runtimeError -> runtimeError.printStackTrace()
        )
    }
);]]></codeblock>
        <p>First, we see that we work on asynchronous mode. Second line issues a <apiname>Statement</apiname>
            using the DSL. Then we subscribe a first time to trigger the query and obtain the result.</p>
        <p>On receiving the result (there will be only one), we subscribe to its components to be notified
            respectively of n1ql errors and n1ql results. Results (as rows) are first mapped into their
            JSON values.</p>
        <p>Notice we also define an <apiname>onError</apiname> behavior for both n1ql errors stream and results
            stream, that just prints the stack trace.</p>
        <p><i>Note: All this is done asynchronously so it's not suitable for a simple test (where the main
            thread would exit potentially before any result could have been displayed)</i></p>
        </section>

        <section><title>Different Kinds of Queries</title>
        <p>Queries are represented by the <apiname>Query</apiname> interface, which also provides factory
            methods to create all variants of queries. Each variant can be constructed from a <apiname>
            Statement</apiname>, even in <codeph>String</codeph> form, but also additionally can define
            a <apiname>QueryParams</apiname>. This represents additional N1QL parameters, like setting a
            <codeph>clientContextId</codeph>.</p>
        <p>Variants of queries are:
                <ul>
                    <li><b>simple</b>: The basic query used so far in this tutorial.</li>
                    <li><b>parameterized</b>: A variant to use with statements containing
						placeholders (like <apiname>$1</apiname> or <apiname>$placeholder</apiname>). The
						user must provide the values for the placeholders as well, either as a
							<apiname>JsonArray</apiname> (for positional parameters) or
							<apiname>JsonObject</apiname> (for named parameters).</li>
                    <li><b>prepared</b>: This is very much like the idea of an SQL prepared
						statement. First the <codeph>bucket.prepare(statement)</codeph> method must be
						called to obtain a <apiname>QueryPlan</apiname>. This plan can then be cached and
						replayed using <codeph>Query.prepared(plan)</codeph>, skipping the query parsing
						and preparation on the server side. Prepared statements can also use
						placeholders.</li>
                    </ul>
        </p>
        </section>
        <section><title>Reading Your Own Writes (RYOW)</title>
        <p>Often you will want to insert or update some data into Couchbase and immediately read this data back using a N1QL query. This is referred to as RYOW (Read Your Own Write).</p>
        <p>This can be achieved by using the <codeph>QueryParams</codeph>, and more precisely the <codeph>consistency</codeph> parameter:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[
JsonDocument doc = JsonDocument.create("test", JsonObject.create().put("test", true));
bucket.insert(doc);

Statement select = select("*").from("beer-sample")
    .where(x("test").eq(true));
QueryParams ryow = QueryParams.build().consistency(ScanConsistency.REQUEST_PLUS);

bucket.async()
    .query(Query.simple(select, ryow))
    .subscribe(result -> {
    result.errors()
        .subscribe(
            e -> System.err.println("N1QL Error/Warning: " + e),
            runtimeError -> runtimeError.printStackTrace()
        );
    result.rows()
        .map(row -> row.value())
        .subscribe(
            rowContent -> System.out.println(rowContent),
            runtimeError -> runtimeError.printStackTrace()
        )
    }
);]]></codeblock>
    </section>

	</conbody>
</concept>
