<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_g1w_qpr_g4">
  <title>Hardware and Software Requirements</title>
  <shortdesc>Follow the recommendations for minimum and recommended hardware and software
    specifications.</shortdesc>
 <body>
 
   
  <section> <title>Minimum Specification </title>
  <p>Hardware and software requirements may vary depending on the machine and operating system.</p>
   
     <p>The minimum hardware specifications to install and effectively operate Couchbase Server
        are:</p>
     <ul>
       
       <li>Dual-core x86 CPU running at 2GHz. </li>
       <li>4GB RAM (physical).</li>
       <li>A block-based storage device (hard disk, SSD, EBS, iSCSI). </li>
     </ul>
     <p>Network file systems such
       as CIFS and NFS are not supported.</p> 
     <note type="important">You can reduce the CPU and RAM resources below the above-specified
        minimum for development and testing purposes. The specification can be as low as 1GB of free
        RAM beyond operating system requirements and a single CPU core. However, you must use at
        least the required minimum specification for production. </note>     

  </section>
   <section>
     <title>Recommended Specifications</title><p>The recommended hardware specifications to install and effectively operate Couchbase Server include:</p>
    
       <ul>
         <li>Four core 64-bit x86 CPU running at 3GHz; six cores when using Cross Datacenter
           Replication (XDCR) and Views.</li>
         <li>16GB RAM (physical).</li>
         <li>A local block-based storage device (hard disk, SSD). Network filesystems such as CIFS and NFS are not supported.</li>
       </ul>
     
     
   </section>
   
   
 </body>
</topic>
