<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_xtt_q2v_xs">
  <title>Rolling Upgrade with Multiple Versions</title> <shortdesc>A rolling upgrade through multiple Couchbase Server 
    software versions combines the selected upgrade strategy with reaching the desired Couchbase Server version.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>Use one of the following strategies:
    </p>
  <dl>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>Full swap rebalance upgrade</dt>
      <dd>Swap most, if not all new nodes in for old with <xref
            href="../cli/cbcli/rebalance.dita#reference_hl3_v2v_sq">rebalance</xref>
          command.</dd>
    </dlentry>
  </dl>  
   <dl>
     <dlentry>
       <dt>Rolling swap rebalance upgrade</dt>
       <dd>Swap one node in or one node out at a time.</dd>
     </dlentry>
   </dl> 
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Standard rolling upgrade</dt>
        <dd>For this upgrade strategy, your cluster must have sufficient capacity.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <p>For example, an upgrade from Couchbase Server version 2.5.2 to version 4.0.0 using the
      rolling swap rebalance upgrade strategy typically involves the following steps:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>Back up cluster data with the <xref href="../cli/cbbackup-tool.dita#cbbackup-tool"
          >cbbackup tool</xref>.</li>
      <li>Install Couchbase Server version 3.0.3 on as many new nodes as you have on hand to swap in
        for the existing 2.5.2 cluster nodes.</li>
      <li>Add the upgraded nodes to the cluster and select the same number of existing nodes to
        remove.</li>
      <li>Initiate a rebalance operation to move existing data from nodes that will be removed to
        the nodes that are being added.</li>
      <li>When the rebalance operation completes, ensure that the cluster is functioning as expected
        with version 3.0.3.</li>
      <li>Perform steps 1 through 5 again, but this time upgrade nodes to version 4.0.0.</li>
      <li>Verify that the cluster is operating as expected on version 4.0.0.</li>
    </ol>
    <p>You should carefully plan upgrades spanning multiple versions. Be sure to  read the release
      notes and details about significant changes in each newer version before attempting the
      upgrade.</p>
    <p>See the <xref href="http://blog.couchbase.com/Couchbase-rolling-upgrades"
        format="html" scope="external">Rolling Upgrades</xref> blog post for more information and
      examples.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
