<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1367">
  <title>Start-up and Shutdown on Windows</title><shortdesc>Start-up and shutdown scripts are used to manually start up or shut down Couchbase Server.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>On Windows, Couchbase Server is installed as a Windows service. You can use the
        <wintitle>Services</wintitle> tab within the <wintitle>Windows Task Manager</wintitle> to start and stop Couchbase
      Server.</p>
    
    <p>You will need a power user or administrator privileges, or have separately granted 
      rights to manage services to start and stop Couchbase Server. 
      By default, the service automatically starts when the machine boots. </p>
    
    <p>Couchbase Server can be started and stopped via Windows Task Manager, Windows system <cmdname>net</cmdname> command, and Couchbase-supplied <cmdname>.bat</cmdname> scripts.
      
    </p>
    
    <section><title>Start and Stop Couchbase Server via Windows Task Manager</title>
    
    <p>To manually start the service from the Windows interface: <ol>
          <li>Open the Windows Task Manager and select the <uicontrol>Services</uicontrol> tab to
            open the Services management console. <p>Alternatively, select the
                <uicontrol>Start</uicontrol>, select <uicontrol>Run</uicontrol> and then type
                <userinput>Services.msc</userinput> to open the Services management
            console.</p></li>
          <li>Locate the <wintitle>Couchbase Server</wintitle> service and right-click.</li>
          <li>Select <uicontrol>Start</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Stop</uicontrol> as
            appropriate.</li>
        </ol><note type="note">You can also alter the configuration so that the service is not
          automatically started during boot.</note></p>
    </section>
  
    <section><title>Start and Stop Couchbase Server via Windows System <cmdname>net</cmdname> Command</title>
        
        <p>To start and stop Couchbase Server using <codeph>net</codeph>:</p>
        <codeblock>net start CouchbaseServer</codeblock>
        <codeblock>net stop CouchbaseServer</codeblock>

      </section>
      
      
    <section><title>Start and stop Couchbase Server via Couchbase-supplied <cmdname>.bat</cmdname> scripts</title>
        
        <p>The Couchbase-supplied start and stop scripts are provided in the standard installation in the
        <codeph>bin</codeph> directory.</p>
        <p>To start and stop Couchbase Server, use the scripts located in:</p>
        
      <p><filepath> C:\Program Files\Couchbase\Server\bin\service_start.bat</filepath></p>
      <p><filepath> C:\Program Files\Couchbase\Server\bin\service_stop.bat</filepath></p>
    
      </section>
    
    
  </body>
</topic>
