<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ll4_zt5_qx">
  <title>Frequently Asked Questions</title>
  <body>
    <p><b>Q: What’s the relationship between N1QL and SQL++?</b></p>
    <p> SQL++ is a formal <xref href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3631" format="html"
        scope="external">language specification</xref> designed with the goal fo unifying various query languages
      for handling semi-structured data to produce a single, clean, powerful, declarative query language 
      with well-defined semantics. Couchbase SQL++ is the language used in Couchbase Analytics; N1QL is the query
      language used by the Couchbase Server query service. N1QL's design was inspired by SQL++ and it is a proper subset of SQL++. 
      Both languages are quite similar, and over time, the differences between the languages will disappear.</p>
    <p><b>Q: Can I use this with memcached buckets?</b></p>
    <p>No, CBAS relies on DCP and JSON formatted documents. It can only be used with JSON
      coming from a Couchbase bucket.</p>
    <p><b>Q: I got an error message complaining about types: "field-access-by-name: expects input type 
      NULL or RECORD, but got INT64". What does that mean?</b>
    </p>
    <p>This error occurs when you try to apply a function to a value that that function does not support. You may be encountering
      this because a return value is not what you expected, possibly because a query contains ambiguous identifiers
      that get resolved to a different value than you intended. You can try to specify the
      identifier fully to resolve the ambiguity.</p>
    <p><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-21184" format="html"
        scope="external">https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-21184</xref></p>
  </body>
</topic>
