<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_i15_yz2_px">
  <title>Introduction</title>
  <body>
    <p>Couchbase Analytics is a developer preview of a parallel data management capability for
      Couchbase Server. Couchbase Analytics is designed to efficiently run complex queries over many records.
      By complex queries, we mean large ad hoc join, set, aggregation, and grouping operations, any
      of which may result in long running queries, high CPU usage, high memory consumption, and
      excessive network latency in data fetching and cross node coordination. </p>
    <p>Regardless of the technology used, analytic queries can be predetermined or ad hoc, and can be cheap or expensive depending on
      how much data processing they need. Performance challenges can arise when queries access large
      numbers of documents and when queries are not supported by a secondary index, as often happens
      with ad hoc analytics such as you may perform using a visualization tool. </p>
    <p>Couchbase Analytics is designed to support truly ad hoc queries in a reasonable amount of time, even when  
      scans are required. Because Analytics supports efficient parallel query processing and bulk data 
      handling, Couchbase Analytics is still preferred for expensive queries, even when those
      queries are predetermined and might therefore be supported by an index.</p>
    <p>The Couchbase Analytics approach has significant advantages compared to alternatives:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><b>Common data model</b>: Couchbase Analytics natively supports the same rich, flexible-schema document data
        model used in Couchbase Server, rather than trying to force your data into an RDBMS model. </li>
      <li><b>Workload isolation</b>: Operational query latency and throughput are protected from
        slow downs due to analytical query workload - without the complexity of operating a separate
        analytical database. </li>
      <li><b>High data freshness</b>: Couchbase Analytics uses <xref
          href="../architecture/high-availability-replication-architecture.dita#concept_hj1_njj_vs"
          >DCP</xref>, a fast memory-to-memory protocol that Couchbase Server nodes use to
        synchronize data among themselves. Because of this, analytics run on data that’s extremely
        current, without extract, transform, load (ETL) or other hassles and delays.</li>
    </ul>
    <section id="sql-query-lang"><title>SQL++ Query Language</title><p>Couchbase Analytics is programmed using
        the SQL++ query language, which is a next-generation declarative query language. SQL++ has
        much in common with SQL, but it also includes a small number of extensions that address the
        different data models the two languages were designed to serve. Compared to SQL, SQL++ is
        much newer and targets the nested, schema-optional or even schema-less world of modern NoSQL
        systems. </p><p>Now, you may wonder why Couchbase Analytics uses a query language other than N1QL, the
        query language used by the Couchbase Server’s query service. The answer is, this is a
        temporary situation. Both SQL++ and N1QL are quite similar; in fact N1QL was inspired by
        the open language specification SQL++ and is a proper subset of that specification. In the
        long term, the two query languages will merge so that Couchbase Server can be queried using
        one single query language. </p>For more details, refer to the <xref href="1_intro.html"
        format="html">SQL++ Language Reference</xref> section. </section>
  </body>
  
</topic>
