<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_g1s_n2j_rx">
  <title>Limitations</title>
  <body>
    <p>The following list covers some of the limitations with the Analytics. Please read this
      carefully before reporting any new issues.</p>
    <p>
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_zsm_y2j_rx">
        
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colnum="1" colname="c1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colnum="2" colname="c2" colwidth="3.08*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Issue</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody><row>
              <entry>MB-21133</entry>
              <entry>CBAS buckets are not updated if Couchbase bucket is deleted and then recreated
                while CBAS is connected.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>MB-21155</entry>
              <entry>The SELECT DISTINCT operation is not supported. </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>MB-21163</entry>
              <entry>The MINUS, INTERSECT, UNION without ALL operations are not supported.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>MB-21182</entry>
              <entry>The OFFSET without a LIMIT is not supported. </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>MB-21184</entry>
              <entry>If you use add a GROUP BY expression in the SQL format, the expression for the
                GROUP BY key in the SELECT clause must be identical to the GROUP BY key
                expression.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>MB-21270</entry>
              <entry>The PREPARE statement is not supported.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>MB-21294</entry>
              <entry>The operation DML is not supported (CREATE, INSERT, DELETE, UPSERT,
                UPDATE)</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>MB-21201</entry>
              <entry>
                <p>Changes to the Couchbase Server buckets, such as deleting or flushing a
                  bucket, are not supported and may cause unpredictable behavior.</p>
                <p>If you stop and start the Couchbase Analytics Service, the buckets are
                  not automatically reconnected. You must manually reconnect them with the CONNECT
                  BUCKET statement.</p>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </p>
     </body>
</topic>
