<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_bdj_mzm_qx">
    <title>Troubleshooting and FAQs</title>
    <body>
        <section id="view_logs">
            <title>Viewing Logs</title>
            <p>Log files are located in your Analytics installation folder. <ul>
                    <li>On Linux or Mac OS X systems:
                            <p><codeph>cbas/samples/local/logs</codeph></p></li>
                    <li>On Windows systems: <p><codeph>cbas\samples\local\logs</codeph></p></li>
                </ul></p>
            <p>In the <b>logs</b> folder, the following 3 log files are created: <ul>
                    <li>cc.log - cluster controller</li>
                    <li>blue-service.log - blue node</li>
                    <li>red-service.log - red node</li>
                </ul></p>
            <p>Analytics is a parallel distributed query processing framework. In this demo
                environment, there are two nodes named <i>red</i> and <i>blue</i> that each maintain
                a separate log. </p>
        </section>
        <section id="report_issue">
            <title>Reporting an Issue</title>
            <p>Good bug reports save a lot of time for everyone involved. During the developer
                preview, we suggest that you post your questions and bug reports to the <xref
                    href="https://forums.couchbase.com" format="html" scope="external">Couchbase
                    Forum</xref>.<draft-comment author="shilpa.lele">Update the link to include
                    Analytics category once it is created. </draft-comment> When reporting an issue,
                please include the following information:<ul id="ul_jy2_mfc_rx">
                    <li>Description of the issue</li>
                    <li>Version information: cbashelper install_version or by running the following
                        command:
                        <codeblock spectitle="Command">curl http://localhost:8095/analytics/version</codeblock><codeblock><b>Result</b>

{
    "build.date": "Fri Oct 14 11:14:23 PDT 2016",
    "build.number": "274",
    "build.version": "1.0.0-SNAPSHOT",
    "projects": [
        {
            "name": "asterixdb",
            "revision": "ba35812f40d961382f89a5e711786537cbb6c977",
            "upstream": "master"
        },
        {
            "name": "asterix-opt",
            "revision": "f48b69804172ec586437de10af37e4b542d9d9e1",
            "upstream": "master"
        },
        {
            "name": "build",
            "revision": "91f673b3dac389a5e4cc6f114350677f0f6f7639",
            "upstream": "master"
        }
    ]
}</codeblock></li>
                    <li>Steps to reproduce the issue</li>
                    <li><xref href="#topic_bdj_mzm_qx/view_logs" format="dita">Logs</xref>: cc.log,
                        blue-service.log, and red-service.log</li>
                    <li>Cluster configuration by running the following commands:
                        <codeblock>curl http://localhost:8095/analytics/cluster/cc/config
curl http://localhost:8095/analytics/cluster/blue/config 
curl http://localhost:8095/analytics/cluster/red/config </codeblock></li>
                    <li>Thread dumps by running the following
                        commands:<codeblock>curl http://localhost:8095/analytics/cluster/cc/threaddump  
curl http://localhost:8095/analytics/cluster/blue/threaddump 
curl http://localhost:8095/analytics/cluster/red/threaddump  </codeblock></li>
                </ul></p>
        </section>
        <section id="monitor_java_process">
            <title>Monitoring the Java Processes</title>
            <p>If you run <i>top</i> or a similar tool, you can simply see processes called Java
                without much information. You can get more information about what is happening in
                those Java processes by using <xref
                    href="http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/tools/share/jps.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">jps - Java Virtual Machine Process Status
                    Tool</xref>. If you aren’t running other Java processes, you can see similar to
                the following:
                <codeblock>$ jps
76993 NCService
76992 NCService
76994 CCDriver
77010 NCDriver
77012 NCDriver
77049 Jps</codeblock></p>
            <p>More details can be obtained by using the -v flag:
                <codeblock>$ jps -v
76993 NCService -Djava.util.logging.manager=org.apache.logging.log4j.jul.LogManager -Dapp.name=cbasncservice -Dapp.pid=76993 -Dapp.repo=/Users/will/code/cbas/repo -Dapp.home=/Users/will/code/cbas -Dbasedir=/Users/will/code/cbas
76992 NCService -Djava.util.logging.manager=org.apache.logging.log4j.jul.LogManager -Dapp.name=cbasncservice -Dapp.pid=76992 -Dapp.repo=/Users/will/code/cbas/repo -Dapp.home=/Users/will/code/cbas -Dbasedir=/Users/will/code/cbas
76994 CCDriver -Djava.util.logging.manager=org.apache.logging.log4j.jul.LogManager -Dapp.name=cbascc -Dapp.pid=76994 -Dapp.repo=/Users/will/code/cbas/repo -Dapp.home=/Users/will/code/cbas -Dbasedir=/Users/will/code/cbas
77010 NCDriver -Xmx1536m -Djava.util.logging.manager=org.apache.logging.log4j.jul.LogManager -Dapp.name=cbasnc -Dapp.pid=77010 -Dapp.repo=/Users/will/code/cbas/repo -Dapp.home=/Users/will/code/cbas -Dbasedir=/Users/will/code/cbas
77074 Jps -Dapplication.home=/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk1.8.0_60.jdk/Contents/Home -Xms8m
77012 NCDriver -Xmx1536m -Djava.util.logging.manager=org.apache.logging.log4j.jul.LogManager -Dapp.name=cbasnc -Dapp.pid=77012 -Dapp.repo=/Users/will/code/cbas/repo -Dapp.home=/Users/will/code/cbas -Dbasedir=/Users/will/code/cbas
</codeblock></p>
        </section>
        <section id="send_feedback">
            <title>Sending Feedback</title>
            <p>We'd love to hear from you! Feel free to post your feedback to the Couchbase Forum.
                    <draft-comment author="shilpa.lele">Need to add a link here to Couchbase
                    Forum.</draft-comment></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>FAQs</title>
            <p><b>Q: What’s the relationship between N1QL and SQL++?</b></p>
            <p> SQL++ is a formal <xref href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3631" format="html"
                    scope="external">language specification</xref> with well-defined semantics that
                was designed with the goal of unifying clean, powerful, declarative query language
                for handling semi-structured data. The N1QL is the query language used by the
                Couchbase Server query service, and Couchbase SQL++ is the language used in
                Analytics. </p>
            <p><b>Q: Can I use this with memcached buckets?</b></p>
            <p>No, Analytics relies on DCP and JSON formatted documents. It can only be used with
                JSON coming from a Couchbase bucket.</p>
            <p><b>Q: I got an error message like this complaining about types?</b>
            </p>
            <p>In this case, you’ve gotten an error message because you’re trying to apply a
                function to something that doesn’t have functions. This may be caused by ambiguous
                identifiers that get resolved to something different from what you intended. You can
                try to specify the identifier fully to resolve that ambiguity.</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
