<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_s5k_qtx_1t">
	<title>Running N1QL Queries from a Command Line</title>
	<shortdesc>Couchbase Server provides a tool called <cmdname>cbq</cmdname> that enables you to run N1QL queries from a command line.</shortdesc>
	<conbody>
		<p>To run <cmdname>cbq</cmdname>:</p>
			<ol>
				<li>Log in to a Couchbase Server node that has the query service enabled. </li>
				<li>Open a command window.</li>
				<li>Change to the Couchbase tools
				directory.<codeblock># On Linux systems:
$ cd /opt/couchbase/bin</codeblock><codeblock># On OS X systems:
$ cd /Applications/Couchbase\ Server.app/Contents/Resources/couchbase-core/bin</codeblock></li>
				<li>Run the following command to connect to the local query node and start the interactive query
				shell: <codeblock>$ ./cbq</codeblock><note>Run the following command to connect to a
					query node at 123.45.67.89 and port
					8093:<codeblock>./cbq -engine=http://123.45.67.89:8093</codeblock></note></li>
				<li>At the <cmdname>cbq</cmdname> prompt, enter a N1QL query and end the query with a semicolon.
				Press return to execute the query. For
				example:<codeblock>cbq> create primary index on `beer-sample`;</codeblock><codeblock spectitle="Result">{
    "requestID": "fd4086fa-9ed0-465d-9a99-422c5d8e9506",
    "signature": null,
    "results": [
    ],
    "status": "success",
    "metrics": {
        "elapsedTime": "598.972353ms",
        "executionTime": "598.936382ms",
        "resultCount": 0,
        "resultSize": 0
    }
}</codeblock><codeblock>cbq> select * from `beer-sample` limit 1;</codeblock><codeblock spectitle="Results">{
    "requestID": "b9f6490d-91c6-4a18-b0b9-a2345cb58b88",
    "signature": {
        "*": "*"
    },
    "results": [
        {
            "beer-sample": {
                "abv": 5,
                "brewery_id": "21st_amendment_brewery_cafe",
                "category": "North American Ale",
                "description": "Light golden color. Sweet dry aroma with crisp, clear bitterness. Brewed with imported German hops.The perfect beer to have when you'd like to have more than one.",
                "ibu": 0,
                "name": "South Park Blonde",
                "srm": 0,
                "style": "Golden or Blonde Ale",
                "type": "beer",
                "upc": 0,
                "updated": "2010-07-22 20:00:20"
            }
        }
    ],
    "status": "success",
    "metrics": {
        "elapsedTime": "24.994186ms",
        "executionTime": "24.936945ms",
        "resultCount": 1,
        "resultSize": 641
    }
}</codeblock></li>
			</ol>
			    
			    <section>
			        <title>Accessing a Secure Bucket</title>
			        <p>If your bucket has a password, you need to pass the bucket name and bucket password
                    like so:</p>
			        <codeblock>./cbq -engine="http://&lt;bucketname>:&lt;bucketpassword>@123.45.67.89:8093/"</codeblock>
			        <p>For the 'beer-sample' bucket, if you add a password to it of <i>w1fg2Uhj89</i> (as by
                    default it has none), the command to start <cmdname>cbq</cmdname> would look
                    like this:</p>
			        <codeblock>./cbq -engine="http://beer-sample:w1fg2Uhj89@123.45.67.89:8093/"</codeblock>
			        <p>If you want to access all of the buckets in the same cbq session, you would pass in
                    the Administrator username and password instead of the bucket level.</p>
			        <codeblock>./cbq -engine="http://Administrator:password@123.45.67.89:8093/"</codeblock>
			        <note>These commands execute successfully only if you have loaded sample bucket 'beer-sample' either
			            at install or from the Settings menu in the web UI. </note> </section>
	 
			    
			
		<section>
			<title>Exiting <cmdname>cbq</cmdname></title>
			<p>Type <userinput>Ctrl-D</userinput> to exit <cmdname>cbq</cmdname>.</p>
		</section>
	    <section><title>Keyboard Shortcuts for cbq</title>
	        <p>The following table lists the keyboard shortcuts for N1QL commands. These shortcuts are
                similar to those used in the Emacs text editor.</p>
	        <table>
	            <title><cmdname>cbq</cmdname> keyboard shortcuts</title>
	            <tgroup cols="2">
	                <colspec colwidth="1*" />
	                <colspec colwidth="2*" />
	                <thead>
	                    <row>
	                        <entry>Keystroke</entry>
	                        <entry>Action</entry>
	                    </row>
	                </thead>
	                <tbody>
	                    <row>
	                        <entry>Ctrl-A, Home</entry>
	                        <entry>Move cursor to beginning of line</entry>
	                    </row>
	                    <row>
	                        <entry>Ctrl-E, End</entry>
	                        <entry>Move cursor to end of line</entry>
	                    </row>
	                    <row>
	                        <entry>Ctrl-B, Left</entry>
	                        <entry>Move cursor one character left</entry>
	                    </row>
	                    <row>
	                        <entry>Ctrl-F, Right</entry>
	                        <entry>Move cursor one character right</entry>
	                    </row>
	                    <row>
	                        <entry>Ctrl-Left</entry>
	                        <entry>Move cursor to previous word</entry>
	                    </row>
	                    <row>
	                        <entry>Ctrl-Right</entry>
	                        <entry>Move cursor to next word</entry>
	                    </row>
	                    <row>
	                        <entry>Ctrl-D, Del</entry>
	                        <entry>Delete character under cursor (if line is not empty) </entry>
	                    </row>
	                    <row>
	                        <entry>Ctrl-C</entry>
	                        <entry>Reset input (create new empty prompt)</entry>
	                    </row>
	                    <row>
	                        <entry>Ctrl-L</entry>
	                        <entry>Clear screen (line is unmodified)</entry>
	                    </row>
	                    <row>
	                        <entry>Ctrl-T</entry>
	                        <entry>Transpose previous character with current character</entry>
	                    </row>
	                    <row>
	                        <entry>Ctrl-H, Backspace</entry>
	                        <entry>Delete character before cursor</entry>
	                    </row>
	                    <row>
	                        <entry>Ctrl-W</entry>
	                        <entry>Delete word leading up to cursor</entry>
	                    </row>
	                    <row>
	                        <entry>Ctrl-K</entry>
	                        <entry>Delete from cursor to end of line</entry>
	                    </row>
	                    <row>
	                        <entry>Ctrl-U</entry>
	                        <entry>Delete from start of line to cursor</entry>
	                    </row>
	                    <row>
	                        <entry>Ctrl-P, Up</entry>
	                        <entry>Previous match from history</entry>
	                    </row>
	                    <row>
	                        <entry>Ctrl-N, Down</entry>
	                        <entry>Next match from history</entry>
	                    </row>
	                    <row>
	                        <entry>Ctrl-R</entry>
	                        <entry>Reverse Search history (Use <userinput>Ctrl-S</userinput> to forward and
	                            <userinput>Ctrl-G</userinput> to cancel.)</entry>
	                    </row>
	                    <row>
	                        <entry>Ctrl-Y</entry>
	                        <entry>Paste from Yank buffer (Use <userinput>Alt-Y</userinput> to paste next yank
	                            instead.)</entry>
	                    </row>
	                </tbody>
	            </tgroup>
	        </table>
	    </section>
	</conbody>
</concept>
