<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="topic_1_1" xml:lang="en-US">
	<title id="title__Toc272567187">Data in Couchbase</title>
	<shortdesc>In Couchbase Server, data is stored in JSON documents. </shortdesc>

	<conbody>
		<p>A document is a JSON object consisting of a number of fields that are defined. An object
			can be one or more documents and object attributes can be fields in the document. You can
			store data as key-value pairs, using the key as you would a primary key in SQL.</p>

		<p>In Couchbase Server, you do not need to perform data modeling and establish relationships
			between tables the way you would in a traditional relational database. Every JSON document
			can have its own individual set of keys, although one or more informal schemas could be
			adopted for data, and each document has its own implicit schema that is represented in how
			you organize and nest information in your documents. Your document structure can evolve
			over time as your application grows and adds new features.</p>
		<p>Unlike the relational model, attributes within a document do not have to have a predefined
			type. For instance, a zip code can be an integer or a string using the document model. Even
			documents belonging to the same class of application objects, such as a customer document
			can have different attributes than other customer documents. For example, some customer
			documents can have an extra field for shipping insurance, while other customer documents do
			not have that field at all.</p>

	</conbody>
</concept>
