<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="n1ql-introduction">
 <title>N1QL introduction</title>
 <shortdesc>Non-first Normal Form Query Language or N1QL (pronounced "nickel") is the first query
  language that leverages the complete flexibility of JSON with the full power of SQL. Developed by
  Couchbase for use with the Couchbase Server, N1QL provides a common query language and JSON-based
  data model for distributed document-oriented databases.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>N1QL is based on SQL. With a familiar data definition language (DDL), data manipulation
   language (DML), and query language statements, it works on NoSQL database features such as
   key-value stores, multi-value attributes, and nested objects. If you know SQL, you can easily
   learn N1QL—in fact, you’re already more than halfway there.</p>
  <section>
   <title>Key features of N1QL</title>
   
   
   <p> N1QL provides a rich set of features that let you retrieve, manipulate, transform, and create
    JSON document data. The key features include: </p>
   
   <ul>
    <li><b>SELECT Statement</b>: The SELECT statement in N1QL extends the functionality of the SQL
     SELECT statement to work with JSON documents. You can use your knowledge of SQL to work with
     the powerful NoSQL features of Couchbase, which in turn enable you to work with big data, big
     data users, and cloud computing. <draft-comment author="amarantha">Replaced the term "big
      users" to "big data users" from "which in turn enable you to work with big data, big data
      users, big users, and cloud computing."</draft-comment></li>
    <li><b>Data Manipulation Language (DML)</b>: N1QL provides the DELETE, INSERT, UPDATE, and
     UPSERT statements to create, delete, and modify the data stored in JSON documents. You can
     perform these operations by specifying and executing simple commands.</li>
    <li><b>Indexes</b>: N1QL provides the CREATE and DROP INDEX statements to easily create and
     delete indexes.</li>
    <li><b>Primary Key Access</b>: Data in the Couchbase Server can be stored in key-value pairs,
     providing primary key access to any data. </li>
    <li><b>Aggregation</b>: N1QL provides the standard SQL aggregation operators such as MIN, MAX,
     COUNT, as well as the grouping operators, the GROUP BY clause, and the group filter,
     HAVING.</li>
    <li><b>Joins</b>: N1QL lets you retrieve data from multiple documents by specifying joins in the
     FROM clause. </li>
    <li><b>Nesting</b>: Nests enable you to retrieve sub-records for a record. That is, for each
     left hand input, the matching right hand inputs are collected into an array, which is then
     embedded in the result. For example, you can nest each item in a customer’s order. Nests can be
     performed on multiple documents.</li>
    <li><b>Unnesting</b>: Unnesting is the opposite of nesting. The UNNEST function extracts nested
     sub-records from a record, making each extraction a separate record. The following example
     shows a N1QL query using UNNEST and the extracted records.
      <codeblock>SELECT Name, Job
      FROM HRData
      UNNEST HRData.History AS Job </codeblock><codeblock>      {'Name': Jamie
      'Job': ['Yahoo', 2005, 2006]
      }
      {'Name': Jamie
      'Job': ['Oracle', 2006, 2012]
      }
      {'Name': Jamie
      'Job': ['Couchbase', 2012]
      }</codeblock><note>Unnesting
      is performed on a single document. </note></li>
    <li><b>Subqueries</b>: N1QL supports multi part queries through subqueries. You can use a
     subquery with the SELECT statement or nest it within another subquery, thereby refining the
     results of the preceding queries. </li>
    <li><b>UNION, INTERSECT, and EXCEPT</b>: N1QL provides the UNION, INTERSECT, and EXCEPT
     operations to compare two or more queries. UNION combines the results of two or more queries
     into a single result set that includes all the rows that belong to all queries in the union.
     EXCEPT returns any distinct values from the left query that are not found on the right query.
     INTERSECT returns any distinct values that are returned by the queries on both sides of the
     INTERSECT operand.</li>
   </ul> 
  </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
