<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_zf5_lwt_xs">
  <title>Installing with AMI</title> <shortdesc>You can find the
    Couchbase Server's Amazon Machine Images (AMIs) by searching for <codeph>couchbase</codeph> in the Amazon’s EC2 portal.</shortdesc>
  <body>
   
      <p>To install the Couchbase Server AMI: </p>
      <ol>
        <li>Visit the page that contains <xref
          href="https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/seller-profile?id=1a064a14-5ac2-4980-9167-15746aabde72"
          format="html" scope="external">Couchbase Server AMIs</xref>.</li>
        <li>When prompted, sign into your AWS account.</li>
        <li>Select the AWS Region where you want to launch your Couchbase Server instance in the
          <wintitle>Region</wintitle> section.</li>
        <li>Choose your preferred <codeph>instance type</codeph> in the Amazon EC2
          <wintitle>Instance Type</wintitle> section.</li>
        <li>Choose a <codeph>Key Pair</codeph> to associate with the instance in the <wintitle>Key
          Pair</wintitle> section.</li>
        <li>Select the <codeph>Key Pair</codeph> you want to use when connecting to the instance
        over Secure Shell (SSH) in the <wintitle>Key Pair</wintitle> section.</li>
        <li>Click <uicontrol>Launch</uicontrol> with 1-Click to create your new instance.</li>
        <li>After the instance is created, you will be presented with the deployment details. Take
        note of the <codeph>Instance ID</codeph>.</li>
        <li>Sign into the AWS Management Console, select <uicontrol>EC2</uicontrol> and click the ID
        for the instance just created. In the instance detail panel, make a note of the Public DNS
        hostname. You will need this to log into your Couchbase Server installation.</li>
        <li>To connect to your Couchbase Server installation, open a browser and connect to the
        instance URL on port <codeph>8091</codeph>. For example,
        <codeblock>http://ec2-107-21-64-139.compute-1.amazonaws.com:8091</codeblock>Answer the
        prompts for the username and password for the Couchbase Server web console: <ul>
          <li> Username is <codeph>Administrator</codeph></li>
          <li> Password is your instance ID</li>
        </ul></li>
        <li>When you have successfully logged in, you should be presented with the Couchbase Server
        Administration Web Console <wintitle>Cluster Overview</wintitle> window. The server is
        automatically configured for you.</li>
        
      </ol>
      
      <p>After the instance has started, it will operate just like any Couchbase Server instance. 
        This single instance can operate independently, or can be added to a 
        group of similar instances to create a cluster.</p>
      
  </body>
</topic>
