<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_z2l_djn_vs">
  <title>Cloud Deployment Considerations</title><shortdesc>Couchbase Server can be deployed on the following cloud computing platforms:  Amazon Web
    Services (AWS), MS Azure, and Docker, an open-source project.</shortdesc>
  <body>   <p>Before you can deploy Couchbase Server in a cloud, you have to take into consideration
      certain aspects of its operation.</p>

        <p>Many cloud providers warn users that they need to reboot certain instances for maintenance. </p> 
        <p>To make sure that instance reboots of Couchbase Server do not disrupt your applications,
          take the following steps:</p>
        <ol>
          <li>Install Couchbase Server on the new node.</li>
          <li>From the Couchbase Web Console, add the new node to the cluster.</li>
          <li>From the Couchbase Web Console, remove the node that you wish to reboot.</li>
          <li>Rebalance the cluster.</li>
          <li>Shut down the instance.</li>
        </ol>
        
      <section><title>Local Storage</title>
        <p>Dealing with local storage is not very much different than a datacenter deployment.
          However, EC2 provides an interesting solution: using the EBS storage you can prevent data
          loss when an instance fails. Writing Couchbase data and configuration to EBS creates a
          reliable medium of storage. </p>
        <p>Using EBS is not required, however, follow the best practices while performing backups.
          Keep in mind that you will have to update the per-node disk path when configuring Couchbase
          Server to the point you have mounted an external volume. </p>
      </section> 
      <section><title>Handling IP Address Changes</title>
        <p>When you use Couchbase Server in the cloud, server nodes can use internal or public IP
          addresses. Because IP addresses in the cloud can change quite frequently, you can configure
          Couchbase Server to use a hostname instead of an IP address.</p> 
        <p>For Amazon EC2, Amazon-generated hostnames are recommended. These hostnames automatically
          resolve to either an internal or external address. </p>
        <p>By default, Couchbase Server uses specific IP addresses as a unique identifier. If the IP
          changes, an individual node will not be able to identify its address, and other servers in
          the same cluster will not be able to access it. </p><p>To configure Couchbase Server instances in the cloud to use hostnames, follow the steps later in
            this section. Make sure that your hostname always resolves to the IP address of the node by
            using a dynamic DNS service such as DNSMadeEasy. The dynamic DNS service will allow you to
            update the hostname automatically when an underlying IP address changes.</p> <p>The
              following steps completely destroy any data and configuration from the node, so you should
              start with a fresh Couchbase Server installation. If you already have a running cluster, you
              can rebalance a node out of the cluster, make the change, and then rebalance it back into
              the cluster.</p> <p>Nodes with both IPs and hostnames can exist in the same cluster. When you set the IP address
                using this method, you should not specify the address as <varname>localhost</varname> or
                127.0.0.1 as this will be invalid when used as the identifier for multiple nodes within the
                cluster. Instead, use the correct IP address for your host. </p>    
      </section>
      
      <section><title>Security Groups/Firewall Settings</title>
        <p>It’s important to make sure you have both allowed AND restricted access to the appropriate
          ports in a Couchbase Server deployment. Nodes must be able to talk to one another on various ports,
          and it is important to restrict both external and internal access only to authorized
          individuals. Unlike a typical datacenter deployment, cloud systems are open to the world by
          default, and steps must be taken to restrict access.</p>
        
      </section>
      <section><title>Instance Types</title>
        <p>Prior to Couchbase Server 4.x.x, the general recommendation was to use similar instance
          types for all the nodes in the cluster. With Multi-dimensional Scaling, you can take
          advantage of different instance types for Index and Query nodes, which require less storage
          but more CPU cores and more RAM. For Data nodes, choose the similar instance types.</p>
        <p>It is very easy to deploy Couchbase Server in the cloud. Regarding software, there is no
          difference whether you install Couchbase Server on bare-metal or a virtualized operating
          systems. On the other hand, the cloud management and deployment characteristics require a
          separate discussion on the best ways to use Couchbase Server.</p>
        <p>For the purposes of this discussion, the <term>cloud</term> is referred to as Amazon’s EC2 environment, since that is by 
          far the most common cloud-based environment. However, the same considerations apply to any environment that acts 
          like EC2 (an organization’s private cloud, for example). </p>
        <p>In terms of the software itself, EC2 has been tested extensively and a variety of issues, 
          exposed by sometimes unpredictable characteristics of this environment, 
          have been encountered and resolved.</p>
        
        <p> When deploying within the cloud, consider the following:
          <ul>
            <li>Local storage being ephemeral.</li>
            <li>Server IP addresses of changing from runtime to runtime.</li>
            <li>Security groups and firewall settings.</li>
          </ul>
        </p>
        
        
      </section>
  </body>
</topic>
