<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_rfg_qjt_xs">
  <title>Azure Marketplace</title><shortdesc>Make sure that you have the prerequisites for installing Microsoft Azure.</shortdesc>
  <body>
   <p>Use the pre-installation checklist to ensure that you have all requirements:</p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Minimum hardware recommendations </dt>
        <dd><ul>
          <li>2 cores and 4 GB for development.</li>
          <li>4 cores and 16 GB for production.</li>
          <li>For development workloads, choose instance types: D2, D11, A3, A5 or larger.</li>
          <li>For production workloads, choose instance types: D3, D12 or A6 or larger.</li>
        </ul>        
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Configuration of the Azure network</dt>
        <dd><ul>
          <li>Note that a virtual network is the most efficient way. </li>
          <li>Configure a Virtual Network for nodes and applications per DC/Region.</li>
          <li>Set up Vnet-to-Vnet connection between DCs/Regions.</li>
          <li>Note that PrivateIPs are faster to route than public IPs.</li>
        </ul>
          
          
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Configuration of Availability Sets and Server Groups for full protection</dt>
        <dd><ul>
          <li>Ensure Protection against upgrades and rack failures.</li>
          <li>Configure availability set per VNet.</li>
          <li>Ensure that all nodes are in the same availability set.</li>
          <li>Ensure that all nodes are in separate groups in the Couchbase Cluster. </li>
        </ul>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Configuration of Couchbase Server </dt>
        <dd>
          <ul>
            <li>Use static IPs with nodes. </li>
            <li>Set <codeph>AzureStaticVNetIP</codeph> in Powershell or check the box in the new
              portal.</li>
            <li>Use a PrivateIP for server communication.</li>
            <li>Register the node PrivateIPs (ex: 10.0.x.x) with the Couchbase Web Console.</li>
            <li>Enable remote administration.</li>
            <li>Use a jump box for the front admin access, or open 18901 for the encrypted admin
              access (only with Couchbase Server 3.0).</li>
            <li>Map externally to another random port for security. </li>
            <li>ACL the #18091 endpoint.</li>
            <li>Couchbase Web Console and CLI use #18091, which is SSL encrypted. </li>
            <li>ACL #18091 for added security. No need to open any other port</li>
            <li>Encrypt cross DC/Region traffic with SSL.</li>
          </ul>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Configuration of the Couchbase application
        </dt>
        <dd><ul>
          <li>Ensure that applications are deployed to the same Vnet.</li>
          <li>Use privateIPs (10.0.x.x) for websites, VM applications or cloud services. <ul>
                <li>SSL based client-server communications</li>
                <li>SSL based view access: https://couchbase_server:18092/… </li>
              </ul></li></ul>
           </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Configuration of storage</dt>
        <dd><ul>
          <li>Mount data disks and stripe across with RAID 0.</li>
          <li>Do not use ephemeral drive, which will be reset under node restart.</li>
          <li>Do not use OS drive  because it is limited in size.</li>
          <li>Do not use ReadWrite caching for Couchbase Server data drives, since it writes through
              to Azure Storage.</li>
        </ul>
          
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
  </body>
</topic>
