<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_lgg_sjt_xs">
  <title>Docker Hub</title> <shortdesc>There are several Docker configuration scenarios for Couchbase Server
    deployments.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>Couchbase Server communicates on a number of <xref href="install-ports.dita#topic2659"
        >different ports</xref>. In addition, it is not supported for nodes in a cluster that are
      behind any kind of NAT. </p>
    <p>For these reasons, Docker's default networking configuration is not ideally suited to
      Couchbase Server deployments. There are several deployment scenarios that Docker can easily
      support, and that are described along with recommended network arrangements for each. </p>
    <section> <title>Volumes</title>
      <p>A Couchbase Server Docker container will write all persistent and node-specific data under
        the directory <filepath>/opt/couchbase/var</filepath>. It is recommended to  map this
        directory to a directory on the host file system using the<codeph> -v</codeph> option to
        docker run and for the following reasons:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Persistence</dt>
          <dd>Storing <filepath>/opt/couchbase/var</filepath> outside the container allows you to
            delete the container and recreate it later. You can even update to a container running a
            later point release of Couchbase Server without losing your data.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Performance</dt>
        <dd>In a standard Docker environment using a union file system, leaving<filepath>
              /opt/couchbase/var</filepath> inside the container will result in some amount of
            performance degradation.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
      <p>All of the sample commands below assume that you are using volumes mapped to host
        directories.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>SELinux workaround</dt>
          <dd>If you have <codeph>SELinux</codeph> enabled, mounting the host volumes in a container
            requires an extra step. Assuming you are mounting the <filepath>~/couchbase</filepath>
            directory on the host file system, you need to run the following command once before
            running your first container on that host:
            <codeblock> mkdir ~/couchbase &amp;&amp; chcon -Rt svirt_sandbox_file_t ~/couchbase</codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>       
    </section>
   <section><title>Ulimits</title>
     <p>Couchbase normally expects the following changes to ulimits:
        <codeblock>ulimit -n 40960        # nofile: max number of open files
ulimit -c unlimited    # core: max core file size
ulimit -l unlimited    # memlock: maximum locked-in-memory address space</codeblock>These
        ulimit settings are necessary when running under heavy load. If you are just doing light
        testing and development, you can omit these settings, and everything will still work. </p>
      <p>To set the ulimits in your container, you will need to run Couchbase Docker containers with
        the following additional <codeph>--ulimit</codeph> flags:
        <codeblock>docker run -d --ulimit nofile=40960:40960 --ulimit core=100000000:100000000 --ulimit memlock=100000000:100000000 couchbase/server</codeblock>Since
          <codeph>unlimited</codeph> is not supported as a value, it sets the core and memlock
        values to 100 GB. If your system has more than 100 GB RAM, you will want to increase this
        value to match the available RAM on the system. <note type="note">The
            <codeph>--ulimit</codeph> flags only work on Docker 1.6 or later.</note>
      </p>
   </section> 
  </body>
</topic>
