<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_agt_rpb_ys">
  <title>XDCR in Cloud Deployments</title><shortdesc>XDCR (Cross Datacenter Replication) is used to replicate data between deployed clusters in the cloud.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p> To replicate between two or more clusters deployed in the cloud, keep in mind these
      configuration requirements: <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Use a public DNS names and public IP addresses</dt>
          <dd>You can use public DNS names and public IP addresses for nodes in your cluster. </dd>
          <dd>Cloud services support the use of a public IP address to allow communication to the
            nodes within the cluster. Within the cloud deployment environment, the public IP address
            will be resolved internally within the cluster, but it will allow external
            communication. <p>In Amazon EC2, for example, make sure that the following is set up: <ul>
                <li>The public interface in your instance configuration is enabled.</li>
                <li>Security parameters allow communication to the required ports.</li>
                <li>The public DNS record exposed by Amazon is used as the reference name. </li>
              </ul></p> Configure the cluster with a fixed IP address and the public DNS name
            according to the recommendations for using Couchbase Server in the cloud.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl><dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Use a DNS service</dt>
          <dd>Use a DNS service to identify or register a <codeph>CNAME</codeph> that points to the
            public DNS address of each node within the cluster. <p>The <codeph>CNAME</codeph> will
              be constant, even though the underlying public DNS address may change within the cloud
              service. The <codeph>CNAME</codeph> record entry can then be used as the destination
              IP address when configuring replication between the clusters using XDCR. </p><p>If a
              transient failure causes the public DNS address for a given cluster node to change,
              update the <codeph>CNAME</codeph> to point to the updated public DNS address provided
              by the cloud service. When the <codeph>CNAME</codeph> records are updated, replication
              should be able to persist over a public, internet- based connection, even though the
              individual IP of different nodes within each cluster is configured in XDCR. </p><p>For
              additional security, you should configure your security groups to allow traffic only
              on the required ports between the IP addresses for each cluster. To configure security
              groups, you must specify the inbound port and IP address range. You must also ensure
              that the security includes the right port and IP addresses for the remainder of your
              cluster to allow communication between the nodes within the cluster.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
