<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_uht_bwp_ts">
 <title>SUSE Enterprise Linux installation</title>
 <shortdesc>Install Couchbase Server on the SUSE Enterprise Linux platform using the <cmdname>rpm</cmdname> command-line tool with the downloaded <codeph>RPM</codeph> package.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>Only 64 bit systems are supported.</p>
  <p>You must be logged in as root (superuser) to complete the installation. </p>
  <ol>
   <li>Enter the command:
     <codeblock>rpm -install couchbase-server-enterprise-<varname>version</varname>-suse11.3.x86_64.rpm</codeblock><p>where
      <varname>version</varname> is the version number of the downloaded package.</p></li>
   <li>After the <cmdname>rpm</cmdname> command completes, Couchbase Server starts automatically. </li>
   <li>After installation is completed, the installation process displays a message similar to the
    following:
    <codeblock>
 Minimum RAM required : 4 GB 
    System RAM configured : 8174464 KB
    Minimum number of processors required :  4 cores 
    Number of processors on the system : 4 cores

Starting couchbase-server[ OK ]

You have successfully installed Couchbase Server. 
    Browse to http://host_name:8091/ to configure your server. 
   Refer to http://couchbase.com for additional resources.

   Update your firewall configuration 
    to allow connections to the following ports: 
   
    11211, 11210, 11209, 4369, 8091, 8092 and from 21100 to 21299.

By using this software you agree to the End User License Agreement. 
See /opt/couchbase/LICENSE.txt.</codeblock></li>
   <li>After the installation is completed, use the <cmdname>chkconfig</cmdname> command to manage the Couchbase Server service, 
    including checking the current status and creating the links to turn on and off the automatic startup.
   </li>
    <li>To perform the initial Couchbase Server setup, open a web browser and access the Couchbase Web Console.
   </li>
  </ol>
  
  
 </conbody>
</concept>
