<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ttw_pbp_ts">
 <title>Security considerations</title>
  <shortdesc>By following security best practices, you can mitigate potential security issues</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>Security is important for every line of business.
    This section details some security best practices that you should consider both before and after you install Couchbase Server. </p>
 <p>While you are setting up your server environment, be sure to do the following:</p>
   
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Enhance physical security</dt>
     <dd>To enhance physical security of your Couchbase Server clusters, consider the following points: <ul>
       <li>Ensure that only authorized personnel have physical access to the Couchbase Server cluster environment.</li>

       <li>Regularly back up all data and secure backups in an off-site location. </li>
     </ul></dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl> 

  
  <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Use a firewall</dt>
      <dd>Firewalls offer a layer of defense against external threats and should be put in place to safeguard 
        the perimeters of your deployment. It is a security best practice not to expose your 
        Couchbase Server nodes to the Internet; instead, place your entire cluster behind a firewall.</dd>
     <dd>
       Below are some guidelines for using firewalls with Couchbase Server:
     <ul>
       <li>Enable a firewall between the Internet and your Couchbase Server cluster.
     </li>
      
       <li>When designing web applications with a multi-tier architecture in mind, 
         you should use the least privilege access method. Segment the cluster into defined network 
         layers appropriately with firewalls in front of the application layer and between the 
         application and data layers. Block all traffic through the firewall, 
         and selectively permit traffic on only the required ports between the required hosts.</li>
     </ul></dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  
  <dl>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>Ensure operating system updated</dt>
      <dd>Make sure that you apply the latest patches to secure your operating system; 
        a configuration management solution is good for helping with this.</dd>
    </dlentry>
  </dl>
  
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>Secure in-transit data to and from the cluster</dt>
      <dd>Make sure that you use SSL for client-server communications, XDCR, and to access the admin console in Couchbase.</dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
   
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Secure the file system</dt>
      <dd>You might also consider encrypting your file system to ensure that only authorized processes and users can access it. 
        There are a number of third-party libraries available to use for transparently encrypting Couchbase Server data 
        without any application changes. See <xref href="../security/security-intro.dita#concept_kx3_kkf_xp"/>for more
          information.</dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
   <dl>
     <dlentry>
       <dt>Practice secure authentication procedures.</dt>
       <dd>Change passwords regularly; audit who has access; use strong passwords; ensure that the passwords are unique; do not reuse passwords.</dd>
     </dlentry>
   </dl>
  
 </conbody>  
   
</concept>
