<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1723">
  <title>Resource requirements</title><shortdesc>Specifications for installing Couchbase Server.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <section><title>Recommended specification</title>
    <p>To install Couchbase Server, follow these guidelines:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><p>Quad-core for the key-value store, 64-bit CPU running at 3GHz.</p></li>
      <li><p>Six cores if XDCR (Cross Data Center Replication) and views are used.</p></li>
      <li><p>16GB RAM (physical).</p></li>
      <li><p>The block-based storage device (hard disk, SSD, EBS, iSCSI). Network file systems such as CIFS
            and NFS are not supported.</p></li>
    </ul></section>
    <section><title>Minimum specification</title>
    <p>A machine with minimum specifications must have:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Dual-core CPU that is running at 2GHz for the key-value store.</li>
      <li>4GB RAM (physical).</li>
    </ul>
        <note type="note">For development and testing purposes, you can use reduced CPU and RAM
        resources compared to the specified minimum. These resources can be as low as 1GB of free
        RAM beyond operating system requirements and a single CPU core. For production, however, the
        minimum specification must be implemented. </note>
    <note type="note">Performance on machines configured with specifications lower than the minimum
        is significantly lower. You cannot use such configuration as an indication of the
        performance on a production machine. View performance on machines with less than 2 CPU cores
        is significantly reduced.</note></section>
   <section><title>Memory requirements</title></section>
    <p>Your machine must have enough memory to run the operating system and Couchbase Server. For
      example, if 8GB of RAM is dedicated to Couchbase Server, there must also be enough RAM to host
      the operating system. If additional applications and servers are running, additional RAM is
      required. For smaller systems, such as those with less than 16GB, allocate at least 40% of RAM
      to the operating system.</p>
    <section><title>Storage requirements</title>
    <p>The following amount of storage must be available:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>1GB for application logging.</li>
      <li>At least twice the disk space to match the physical RAM for persistence of information.
            <p>For views, the space depends on the data that the view is emitting. It is a good
            practice to have a free space that is at least equivalent to twice the size of the data
            that is emitted in the views.</p></li>
    </ul>
    </section>
  <section><title>CLI utilities requirements </title> Couchbase command-line utilities require that
      Python version 2.6 or greater be installed on the system so that they can function properly. </section>  
    
  </body>
<!--  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <link href="../Concepts/bp-sizingGuidelines.dita"></link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>-->
</topic>
