<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_pvp_lyf_ss">
 <title>Installation guide</title>
 <shortdesc>The installation guide explains how to install and uninstall Couchbase Server, deploy
  the Couchbase cloud, upgrade Couchbase Server, and migrate to and from other
  databases.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <section><title>Select Couchbase Server edition</title>
   
   <p>Couchbase Server comes in two different editions: Enterprise Edition and Community Edition. There are some differences between them:
   </p>
   <ul>
    <li>Enterprise Edition (EE) is the latest stable version of Couchbase Server, which includes
     all the bug fixes and has passed a rigorous QA process. It is free for use for testing and
     development purposes. You need to purchase an annual support plan with this edition for
     production use.To contact Couchbase sales office, send email to<codeph>
      sales@couchbase.com</codeph> or call 650-417-7500.</li>
    <li>Community Edition (CE) lags behind the EE by about one release cycle and does not
     include all the latest fixes or commercial support. However, it is open source and
     entirely free for use in testing and, if you’re very brave, in production. This edition is
     appropriate for enthusiasts and non-critical systems.</li>    
   </ul>
   <p>Once you are ready to give Couchbase Server a hands-on try, download the appropriate installation package for your system.</p>
  </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
