<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_wmy_jdp_ts">
 <title>Cluster setup considerations</title>
 <shortdesc>Proper configuration of I/O subsystems is critical for the optimal performance and
  operation and performance of Couchbase Server.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  
  
  <p>These are the most common best practices recommended for storage configuration:</p>
   <section><title>General recommendations</title> 

 
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Use RAID 1+0 (or RAID 1) if replication factor is 1</dt>
     <dd>If replication factor is 2 or higher, the system administrator can rely on database-level
      replication for data durability.</dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl> <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><xref
       href="../architecture/services-archi-multi-dimensional-scaling.dita#concept_v4w_zmj_vs"
       >Multi-Dimensional Scaling</xref> (MDS)</dt>
     <dd>MDS functionality allows separation of Index and Query services from the traditional
      Couchbase Server data/view services. With MDS and if it fits your use case needs, you can have
      different disk storage configurations for cluster nodes running the Data service and different
      ones running the Index service. For example, nodes running the Index service could have SSD
      backed storage for better performance. Please refer to <xref
       href="bp-sizing-guidelines.dita#topic13047"/>.</dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl> 
 <dl>
  <dlentry>
   <dt>Windows OS</dt>
   <dd>For Windows OS, use 64k allocation sizes on NTFS file systems.</dd>
  </dlentry>
 </dl>
   </section>
  
  <section><title>Nodes running the Data service</title>
   
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt> Isolate the data and indexes</dt>
    <dd>For best performance, isolate the data and indexes (note that these are different from the
      Index service) at the physical disk level. </dd>
 
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
<dl>
 <dlentry>
  <dt>Combine different workloads</dt>
  <dd>Combining different workloads (workloads with very different I/O and latency characteristics)
      can have a negative effect on the overall performance. In case of combined workloads, it might
      be appropriate to have objects in different buckets and the files for each bucket on different
      mount points/paths.</dd>
 </dlentry>
</dl>
 
   
  </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
