<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_a1p_bzp_ts">
 <title>Installing on Linux</title>
 <shortdesc>Couchbase Server runs on several Linux systems: Red Hat, CentOS, Ubuntu, Debian, SuSE
  Enterprise, and Oracle Enterprise.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
 
   
   <p>You can download Couchbase Server directly to a Linux system by using the
    <cmdname>wget</cmdname> or <cmdname>curl</cmdname> command.</p>
   <p>The basic syntax of the <cmdname>wget</cmdname> command is:
    <codeblock>$ wget [option]... [url]... </codeblock></p>
   <p>For example, the following command downloads a version of Couchbase Server that runs on
    CentOS 7:</p>
   
   <codeblock>$ wget http://packages.couchbase.com/releases/<varname>version</varname>/couchbase-server-enterprise-<varname>version</varname>-centos7_x86_64.rpm </codeblock>
   
   <note type="tip">To find the proper URL to specify in the <cmdname>wget</cmdname> command, go to
    <xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/nosql-databases/downloads" format="html" scope="external"
    /> and copy the download link for your specific operating system. </note>
  <note type="important">RHEL6 and other newer Linux distributions are known to have the Transparent
   Huge Pages (THP) feature enabled by default. THP can cause issues in database software, including
   Couchbase Server. THP can cause nodes to lose cluster heartbeats and auto-failover. <xref
    href="thp-disable.dita#topic_wmm_1ps_pv">Disabling THP</xref> prior to installing Couchbase
   Server is strongly encouraged. </note>
  <note type="tip">Modern NICs have multiple RX and TX queues to provide concurrent handling for network
   requests. By default, most Linux distributions configure CPU0 to handle all network interrupts
   for all the queues. For a system running with a high rate of TCP requests, this can become a
   bottleneck as CPU0 has to handle all the requests. To achieve better performance, network queue
   IRQs can be distributed to all the cores uniformly. A 2X improvement in the GSI scan throughput
   was observed by reconfiguring the interrupt CPU affinity. You can use the following script to
   reconfigure the IRQ affinity, <xref
    href="https://ntzc.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/zc/ixgbe/set_irq_affinity.sh" format="html"
    scope="external"/>.</note>
 </conbody>
</concept>
