<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_d5r_vdp_ts">
 <title>Client Deployment Strategies</title> <shortdesc>Couchbase Server client SDKs are the preferred deployment option.</shortdesc>

 <conbody>
  <p> If your language and development environment supports a smart client library, Couchbase Server client SDKs are the preferred
   deployment option. If this is not the case, use the Couchbase Server client-side Moxi (Memcached Proxy)
   configuration for the best performance and functionality. If your existing application supports
   Memcached, Moxi can be deployed and facilitate use of a Couchbase Server cluster with all the
   power and functionality that Couchbase Server is known for. </p>
  <section><title>Using a Couchbase Server Client SDK</title>
   <p>When using an SDK, your application gains the ability to communicate directly to the Couchbase
    Server cluster nodes that are needed to perform the operation. Your application requires no  knowledge
    of the cluster topology as the SDK takes care of this on your behalf. </p>
   <p>The SDK communicates with the cluster using a custom Couchbase binary protocol. The protocol
    enables the SDK to receive a cluster topology map, locate the necessary service (Data, Index,
    Query) and node required for the operation, and then read/write information from there. For the
    Data service specifically, the SDK communicates directly to the vBucket (shard) that contains
    the data to perform the operation. When constructing the connection string on the client
    application for the SDK, it is the best practice to include at least three nodes from the
    cluster from which the initial cluster map originates. Any future changes to the cluster map
    following the initial bootstrap happen any time the cluster topology changes, for example during
    the cluster rebalance. </p>
   <p>In releases prior to Couchbase Server 2.5, the SDK would make an HTTP connection to port 8091
    to get the initial cluster map and any updates. With Couchbase Server 2.5 or later, the SDK gets
    the cluster map via the memcached protocol on port 11210 of a node (rather than via persistent
    HTTP connections to port 8091). Getting the map through the memcached protocol significantly
    improves connection scaling capabilities and reduces the number of open ports. </p>
    
   <note type="note">This change is only applicable to Couchbase-type buckets
    (not memcached buckets). An error is returned if a configuration request is received on port
    8091.
   </note>
   
   
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Client-Side Memcached to Couchbase Proxy</title>
   <p>Deploy a standalone Memcached to Couchbase Server proxy, called Moxi in the following cases: <ul>
     <li>A client SDK is not available for your chosen platform. </li>
     <li>Your application is already using Memcached, and you are not ready for an application
      redesign.</li>
    </ul> Deploy Moxi on each of your application servers. It appears to your application as a
    Memcached server but provides the same functionality as the client SDK. This functionality gives
    your application all of the data persistence, power, HA, and scalability characteristic to
    Couchbase Server, but your application communicates as it would to Memcached. Keep in mind that
    Moxi will only connect to the Couchbase Data Service and will not utilize any of the other
    services (Indexing, Querying). </p>
   <p>Your application should be configured to communicate via your memcached library to just one 
    server in its server list (<codeph>localhost</codeph>). All application operations are sent to <codeph>localhost:11211</codeph>, which is  
    the port serviced by Moxi.</p> 
   <p>Moxi then works like a client SDK in the following way:
    <ol>
     <li>Hashes the document ID to the vBucket in the Data Service.</li>
     <li>Looks up the host server for that vBucket in the cluster map.</li>
     <li>Sends the operation to the appropriate cluster node on port 11210 to fulfill the
      operation.</li>
    </ol>
   </p>
  </section>
  
  <!--<section><title>Server-Side Memcached to Couchbase Proxy</title>
   
   <note type="attention">Server-side proxy configuration is not recommended for production use as it will 
    be a single point of failure to your application. 
    It is strongly recommended to use either a Couchbase SDK or the client-side Moxi unless your platform and environment 
    do not support that deployment type.</note>
   
   <p>The server-side Moxi exists within each Couchbase Data Service node installation on port 11211 without any extra effort. 
    It supports the memcached protocol and enables an existing application to communicate with Couchbase Cluster 
    without installing another piece of proxy software. The downside to this approach is performance and high availability.</p>
   <p>In this deployment option versus a typical Memcached deployment, and in a worse-case scenario,
    server mapping happens twice. An example is when you use Ketama hashing to a server list on the
    client, and then use vBucket hashing and server mapping on the proxy with an additional round
    trip network hop introduced.</p>
    </section>-->
 </conbody>
</concept>
