<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_o2n_51k_5s">
  <title>Installing Couchbase Server</title><shortdesc>Installing and configuring Couchbase Server is very straightforward. 
    </shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>Pick up the platform, the correct edition for your needs, and then download and run the installer.</p>
    <section><title>Select Couchbase Server edition</title>
      
      <p>Couchbase Server comes in two different editions: Enterprise Edition and Community Edition. There are some differences between them:
      </p>
      <ul>
        <li>Enterprise Edition (EE) is the latest stable version of Couchbase Server, which includes all the bug fixes and has passed a rigorous QA process. 
          It is free for use for testing and development purposes. You need to purchase an annual support plan with this edition for production use.</li>
        <li>Community Edition (CE) lags behind the EE by about one release cycle and does not
          include all the latest fixes or commercial support. However, it is open source and
          entirely free for use in testing and, if you’re very brave, in production. This edition is
          appropriate for enthusiasts and non-critical systems.</li>    
      </ul>
      <p>Once you are ready to give Couchbase a hands-on try, download the appropriate installation package for your system.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Download Couchbase Server</title>
      <p>Couchbase Server is supported on numerous popular operating systems. Look for the binaries
        for your operating system on the Couchbase download page<xref
          href="http://www.couchbase.com/nosql-databases/downloads" format="html" scope="external"
        />. </p>
      <p>Each of the binaries listed on the download page has its appropriate install
        instructions.</p>
    </section>  
    
    <section><title>On Linux systems</title>
      
      <p>You can download Couchbase Server directly to a Linux system by using the
        <cmdname>wget</cmdname> or <cmdname>curl</cmdname> command.</p>
      <p>The basic syntax of the <cmdname>wget</cmdname> command is:
        <codeblock>$ wget [option]... [url]... </codeblock></p>
      <p>For example, the following command downloads a version of Couchbase Server that runs on
        CentOS:</p>
      
      <codeblock>$ wget http://packages.couchbase.com/releases/<varname>version</varname>/couchbase-server-enterprise-<varname>version</varname>-centos7_x86_64.rpm </codeblock>
      
      <note type="note">To find the proper URL to specify in the <cmdname>wget</cmdname> command, go to
        <xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/nosql-databases/downloads" format="html" scope="external"
        /> and copy the download link for your specific operating system. </note>
    </section>
    
    
    <section><title>On Windows systems</title>
      <p>You can download Couchbase Server directly using the <cmdname>wget.exe</cmdname> command for
        Windows or Powershell scripting. </p>
      <p>The basic syntax of the <cmdname>wget</cmdname> command is:
        <codeblock>$ wget [option]... [url]...</codeblock>For example, the following command downloads a
        version of Couchbase Server and that runs on Windows Server 2012 R2:
        <codeblock>$ wget.exe --no-check-certificate http://packages.couchbase.com/releases/<varname>version</varname>/couchbase-server-enterprise-<varname>version</varname>-windows_amd64.exe </codeblock></p>
      
      
      
      
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
