<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
  
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="ipv6-setup">
  
<title> IPv6: Set-Up Procedures </title>
  
  <shortdesc> Couchbase Server supports IP version 6 (IPv6). Set-up is required for each platform. </shortdesc>
  
<body> 
  
  <section id="ipv6-overview">
    
    <title>
      IP Version 6 Overview
    </title>
    
    <p>Support for IPv6 is provided only by Couchbase Server <i>Enterprise Edition</i>. Set-up is
        required for each platform, as described in the sections below. Note that while the steps
        for Linux and MacOS are to be performed <i>after</i> the basic installation procedure is
        complete; the steps for Windows are integrated into the basic installation procedure itself. </p>
     
    <p>
      See
      <xref href="./get-started.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Couchbase Server Installation Home</xref> for all
      information on server-installation.
    </p>
    
  </section>
  
  <section id="linux-ipv6-setup">
    
    <title>
      IPv6 Set-Up for Linux
    </title>
    
    <p>
      After the couchbase package (rpm or deb file) has been installed, the <codeph>couchbase</codeph> service is started by default. 
      To enable IPv6, proceed as follows:
    </p>
    
    <ol>
    
    <li>
      Stop the <codeph>couchbase</codeph> service.
      
      <p>
        
      </p>
    </li>
      
    <li> 
      In <codeph>/opt/couchbase/etc/couchbase/static_config</codeph>, set
      <codeph>ipv6</codeph> to <codeph>true</codeph>.
      
      <p>
        
      </p>
    </li>
      
    <li>
      Delete <codeph>/opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/config/config.dat</codeph>.
      
      <p>
        
      </p>
    </li>
      
    <li>
      Restart the <codeph>couchbase</codeph> service: this starts Couchbase Server in IPv6 mode. To check, point the browser at 
      <codeph>http://[::1]:8091</codeph>, which is the IPv6 address and port number on which Couchbase Server should be running.
      
      <p>
        
      </p>
    </li>     
    </ol>
  </section>
  
  <section id="windows-ipv6-setup">
    
    <title>
      IPv6 Set-Up for Windows
    </title>
    
    <p>
      IPv6 set-up requirements are incorporated into the InstallShield wizard itself: during installation of the
      Couchbase package, a checkbox allows the user to enable IPv6 mode. (Note that after installation, any subsequent mode-change
      requires reinstallation.)
    </p>
    
  </section>
  
  <section id="macos-ipv6-setup">
    
    <title>
      IPv6 Set-Up for MacOS
    </title>
    
    <p>
      After installation of the Couchbase package, proceed as follows:
    </p>
    
    <ol>
    <li>
      Stop the <codeph>coudhbase</codeph> service.
      
      <p>
        
      </p>
    </li>
    
    <li>
      In 
      <codeph>/Applications/Couchbase\ Server.app/Contents/Resources/couchbase-core/etc/couchbase/static_config.in</codeph>,
      set <codeph>ipv6</codeph> to <codeph>true</codeph>. 
      <p>
        
      </p>
      
    </li>
    
    <li>
      Delete <codeph>~/Library/Application\ Support/Couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/config/config.dat</codeph>.
      <p>
        
      </p>
    </li>
      
    <li>
      Restart the <codeph>couchbase</codeph> service: this starts the server in IPv6 mode. To check, point the browser at 
      <codeph>http://[::1]:8091</codeph>, which is the IPv6 address and port number on which Couchbase Server should be running.
      
      <p>
        
      </p>
      
    </li>
      
    </ol>
    
  </section>
  
</body>

</topic>
