<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3637">
 <title>Mac OS X installation</title>
 <shortdesc>Mac OS 10.7 and 10.8 are supported, but for development purposes only.</shortdesc>
 <body>
  
  <p>Before you install, verify the list of supported platforms. </p>
   <p>Mac OS X installation uses a Zip
   file with a stand-alone application that can be copied to the
    <codeph>Applications</codeph> folder or to any other location you choose. The installation
   location is not the same as the location of the Couchbase data files.</p>
  
  <p>The following Mac operating systems are supported:</p>
  
  <table>
   <tgroup cols="4">
    <colspec colname="col1"/>
    <colspec colname="col2"/>
    <colspec colname="col3"/>
    <colspec colname="col4"/>
    <thead>
     <row>
      <entry><b>Platform</b></entry>
      <entry><b>Version</b></entry>
      <entry><b>32 / 64 bit</b></entry>
      <entry><b>Supported</b></entry>
     </row>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
     <row>
      <entry>Mac OS</entry>
      <entry>10.7</entry>
      <entry>64 bit</entry>
      <entry>Developer only</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry>Mac OS</entry>
      <entry>10.8</entry>
      <entry>64 bit</entry>
      <entry>Developer only</entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </table>
    
  <p>Use Archive Utility, the default archive file handler in Mac OS X, to unpack the
   Couchbase Server distribution. It is more difficult to diagnose non-functioning or damaged
   installations after extraction by other third party archive extraction tools.</p>
  
  <note type="warning">Due to limitations within the Mac OS X operating system, the Mac OS X implementation is
   incompatible with other operating systems. It is not possible either to mix operating systems
   within the same cluster, or to configure XDCR between a Mac OS X and Windows or Linux cluster. If
   you need to move data between a Mac OS X cluster and a cluster hosted on another platform, use
   <cmdname>cbbackup</cmdname> and <cmdname>cbrestore</cmdname>. For more information, see 
   <xref href="../Tasks/backup-restore-tween-opsys.dita" format="dita" /></note>
  
  <p>To perform the installation, follow the steps in <xref href="mac-install-osx.dita">Installing
    on Mac OSX</xref>.</p>
 
  
 </body>
 <related-links>
  <linklist>
   <link href="../Install/install-platforms.dita"/>
   <link href="../Install/mac-startup-shutdown.dita"/>
   
  </linklist>
 </related-links>
</topic>
