<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA General Task//EN" "generalTask.dtd">
<task id="task_on3_yf3_dq">
    <title>Installing on Mac OSX</title>
    <shortdesc>To install Couchbase Server on Mac OSX use the GUI and the command line.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <ol>
                    <li>Delete any previous installations of Couchbase Server using the command line or by dragging the icon
                        to the Trash can.</li>
                    <li>Remove remaining files from previous installations:
                    <codeblock>&gt; rm -rf ~/Library/Application\ Support/Couchbase
&gt; rm -rf ~/Library/Application\ Support/Membase</codeblock></li>
                    <li>Download the Mac OS X zip file.</li>
                    <li>Double-click the downloaded zip installation file to extract the server. This creates a
                        single folder, the <codeph>Couchbase Server.app</codeph> application.</li>
                    <li>Drag and Drop <codeph>Couchbase Server.app</codeph> to your chosen installation folder, such
                        as the system <codeph>Applications</codeph> folder.</li>
                </ol><p>After the installation completes, double-click on <codeph>Couchbase Server.app</codeph> to start
                    Couchbase Server. The Couchbase Server icon appears in the menu bar on the right-hand side. If the server was
                    not configured, the setup process can be completed from the Couchbase Web Console.</p>
                <p>Couchbase Server runs as a background application. Click on the icon in the menu bar
                    for list of operations that can be performed.</p>
                <p>The command line interface (CLI) tools are included in the Couchbase Server application
                    directory.  Access the CLI from a terminal window and use the full path of the Couchbase Server
                    installation. By default, this is
                    <filepath>/Applications/Couchbase Server.app/Contents/Resources/couchbase-core/bin/</filepath>.</p>
            <note type="attention">The default username/password is Administrator/password. 
                After initially logging into the console with the default, change the username and password. </note>       
        </context>
    </taskbody>
</task>
