<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3637">
 <title>Installing on Mac OS X</title>
 <shortdesc>Mac OS 10.8, 10.9 and 10.10 are supported for development purposes only.</shortdesc>
 <body>
  
  <p>When installing Mac OSX nodes, only 64 bit systems are supported. Before you install, verify
   the list of <xref href="install-platforms.dita#topic1634">supported platforms</xref>. </p>
   <p>The Mac OS X installation uses a Zip file with a stand-alone application that can be copied to
   the <codeph>Applications</codeph> folder or to any other location you choose. The installation
   location is not the same as the location of the Couchbase data files.</p>
  
 
    
  <p>Use Archive Utility, the default archive file handler in Mac OS X, to unpack the
   Couchbase Server distribution. It is more difficult to diagnose non-functioning or damaged
   installations after extraction by other third party archive extraction tools.</p>
  
  <section><title>Prerequisites</title> </section>
  <p>Delete any previous installations of Couchbase Server using the command line or by dragging the icon to the Trash can.</p>
   
  <p> Remove remaining files from previous installations using these commands:
   <codeblock> rm -rf ~/Library/Application\ Support/Couchbase
 rm -rf ~/Library/Application\ Support/Membase</codeblock>
  </p>
  <section>
  <title>Installing with UI or CLI</title>
 <p>To install Couchbase Server on Mac OSX use the GUI or the command line
   interface.</p>
  
    <ol>
     <li>Locate the downloaded Couchbase Server <codeph>.zip</codeph> file, which
      typically is located in the default <filepath>/Downloads</filepath> folder.</li>
     <li>Double-click the downloaded <codeph>.zip</codeph> installation file to extract the server. This creates a
      single folder, the <codeph>Couchbase Server.app</codeph> application.</li>
     <li>Drag-and-drop <codeph>Couchbase Server.app</codeph> to your chosen
      installation folder, such as the system <filepath>/Applications</filepath>
      folder.</li>
    </ol><p>After the installation completes, double-click on <codeph>Couchbase Server.app</codeph> to start
     Couchbase Server. The Couchbase Server icon appears in the menu bar on the right-hand side. If the server was
     not configured, the setup process can be completed from the Couchbase Web Console.</p>
    <p>Couchbase Server runs as a background application. Click on the icon in the menu bar
     for list of operations that can be performed.</p>
    <p>The command line interface (CLI) tools are included in the Couchbase Server
     application directory. Access the CLI from a terminal window and use the full path
     of the Couchbase Server installation. This is
     <filepath>/Applications/Couchbase Server.app/Contents/Resources/couchbase-core/bin/</filepath>
     by default.</p>
    <note type="attention">The default Couchbase Server administrator user cr5edentials are
     as follows:
     <ul>
      <li>Username: <userinput>Administrator</userinput></li>
      <li>Password: <userinput>password</userinput>. </li>
     </ul></note>
    <p>Change the username and password to your preferred values immediately after initial login 
     to the Couchbase Web Console with the default credentials.</p>
  </section>
 </body>
 
</topic>
