<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_qjx_5xy_p4">
  <title>Migrating from Apache CouchDB</title><shortdesc>Migration guidelines for Apache CouchDB users.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>While related from a technology perspective, Apache CouchDB and Couchbase have significantly
      different capabilities that support very different application developer needs and use cases:</p>
      
      <ul>
        <li>Couchbase Server, same as Membase, has a built-in memcached-based caching technology that
          consistently provides sub-millisecond read/write performance and is capable of hundreds of
          thousands of operations per second, per node. Couchbase Server also has a built-in clustering system that allows data to be
          automatically spread across multiple nodes.</li>
        <li> Apache CouchDB is a disk-based database that is usually better suited for the use cases
        where super-low latency or high throughput are not a requirement. It is a single node
        solution with peer-to-peer replication technology and is better suited for decentralized
        systems and for holding data amounts that do not need to be spread out across multiple
        nodes.</li>
      </ul>
        
    <p>These differences introduce a number of significant
      differences for CouchDB users who want to migrate to Couchbase Server. However, once they
      migrate to Couchbase Server, they gain the scalability and performance advantages that Couchbase Server 
      provides. </p>
    
    <section><title>Differences in terms and concepts</title><p>CouchDB stores information using the concept of a document ID, which is either explicit or
      automatically generated.  Documents are stored in JSON format. Within Couchbase Server there is no
        document ID, and information is stored in the form of a key-value pair instead. The key is
        equivalent to the document ID, the value is equivalent to the document, and the format of
        the data is the same.</p>
      <p>Almost all of the
        HTTP REST API that makes up the interface for communicating with CouchDB does not exist
        within Couchbase Server. The basic document operations for creating, retrieving, updating
        and deleting information are entirely supported by the memcached protocol.</p>
      <p>Also,
          beyond views, many of the other operations are unsupported at the client level within
          CouchDB. For example, you cannot create a new database as a client, store attachments, or
          perform administration-style functions, such as view compaction.</p>
      <p>Couchbase Server does not support the notion of databases. Instead, information is stored
        within logical containers called <term>Buckets</term>. These are logically equivalent and
        can be used to compartmentalize information according to projects or needs. With buckets,
        you get the additional capability to determine the number of replicas of the information,
        and the port and authentication required to access the information.</p></section>
    
    <section><title>Consistent functionality</title><p>The operation and interface for querying and creating view definitions in Couchbase Server are
        mostly identical. Views are still based on the combination of the map/reduce functions, and
        you can port your map/reduce definitions to Couchbase Server without any issues. The main
        difference is that the view does not output the document ID. Instead, it outputs the key
        against which the key-value was stored into the database.</p>
      <p>To query views you can use the same arguments, such as a start and end docIDs, returned row
        counts and query value specification.  You can also use the requirement to express your key
        in the form of a JSON value if you are using compound (array or hash) types in your view key
        specification. Stale views are also supported and, just as with CouchDB, accessing a stale
        view prevents Couchbase Server from updating the index.</p></section>
    
    <section><title>Changed functionality</title><p>There are many changes in the
      functionality and operation of Couchbase Server compared to CouchDB:</p>
      
 <ul>
   <li>Basic data storage operations must use the memcached API.</li>
   <li>Explicit replication is unsupported. Replication between nodes within a cluster
     is automatically configured and enabled and is used to help distribute
     information around the cluster.</li>
   <li>You cannot replicate between a CouchDB database and Couchbase Server.
   </li>
   <li>Explicit attachments are unsupported, but you can store additional files as new
     key-value pairs into the database.
   </li>
   <li>CouchApps are unsupported.</li>
   <li>Update handlers, document validation functions, and filters are not supported.</li>
   <li>Futon does not exist and, instead, there is an entire Web Administration Console built into
          Couchbase Server that provides cluster configuration, monitoring, and view/document update
          functionality.</li>
 </ul>     
      
 
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Operational and deployment differences</title><p>The major differences between CouchDB and Couchbase Server are in options
      for clustering and distribution of information. With CouchDB, 
      you need to handle the replication of information between multiple nodes and then
      use a proxy service to distribute the load from clients over multiple machines.</p>
      <p>With Couchbase Server, the distribution of information is automatic within the cluster. Any
        Couchbase Server client library will automatically handle and redirect queries to the server
        that holds the information as it is distributed around the cluster. </p></section>
    
    <section><title>Client and application changes</title><p>As your CouchDB based
      application already uses JSON for the document information and a document ID to identify
      each document, the bulk of your application logic and view support remain identical.
      However, the HTTP REST API for basic CRUD operations must be updated to use the memcached
      protocol.</p><p>Additionally, because CouchApps are unsupported, you need to develop a
        client side application to support any application logic.</p></section>
    
  </body>
</topic>
