<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_s2r_2yt_gy">
  <title>Migrating Data for the Timestamp-based Conflict Resolution</title>
  <shortdesc>The Timestamp-based Conflict Resolution is a new conflict resolution type added in
    version 4.6.0. This new feature is supported for <b>new</b> buckets that are created in
    Couchbase Server version 4.6.0. You cannot change the conflict resolution mode to the
      <i>Timestamp-based Conflict Resolution</i> for existing buckets after upgrading to version
    4.6.0. </shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>If you wish to enable the timestamp-based conflict resolution for your existing data, then
      you must migrate your data to version 4.6.0 cluster using the <codeph>cbbackupmgr</codeph>
      tool. To learn more about the tool, see <xref
        href="../backup-restore/enterprise-backup-restore.dita#topic_rr5_sv3_t5">cbbackupmgr
        tool</xref>. <note type="important">This is a one time migration and the bucket must be
        switched to a new conflict resolution type as part of the migration.</note> To understand
      more about the new Timestamp-based Conflict Resolution, see <xref
        href="../xdcr/xdcr-conflict-resolution.dita#conflict-resolution/timestamp-based-conflict-resolution"
        >Timestamp-based Conflict Resolution</xref>. </p>
    <p dir="ltr">Here are two scenarios:</p>
    <ul id="ul_rcb_y32_5y">
      <li dir="ltr">
        <p dir="ltr">Scenario 1 - In case of unidirectional replication, for example, for a disaster
          recovery where Cluster 1 (Bucket A) has one way replication streams to Cluster 2 (Bucket
          A’).</p>
      </li>
      <li dir="ltr">
        <p dir="ltr">Scenario 2 - In case of bidirectional replication, for example, for data
          locality where Cluster 1 (Bucket A) has both ways replication streams to Cluster 2 (Bucket
          A’).</p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>For Scenario 1, perform the following steps to migrate your data to a new cluster:</p>
    <p>
      <ol id="ol_qh5_5l2_5y">
        <li>Stop application traffic coming into Cluster 1 (Bucket A). <p>
            <note>Allow <i>enough tim</i>e for the replication queues to drain. Check the
                <b>outbound XDCR mutation</b> statistics to confirm. For instructions, see <xref
                href="../monitoring/ui-monitoring-statistics.dita#topic16695/outgoing_xdcr_stats"
                >Monitoring Outgoing XDCR</xref>.</note>
          </p></li>
        <li>Stop and delete Replication stream to Cluster 2 (Bucket A’). For instructions, see <xref
            href="../xdcr/xdcr-create.dita#topic_e5r_qpn_vs/delete-replication">Delete
            Replication</xref>.</li>
        <li>Run the <codeph>cbbackupmgr</codeph> tool to backup the entire bucket’s (Bucket A) data.
          For instructions, see  <xref
            href="../backup-restore/enterprise-backup-restore.dita#topic_rr5_sv3_t5">cbbackupmgr
            tool</xref>.</li>
        <li>Delete Bucket A from Cluster 1. For instructions, see <xref
            href="../clustersetup/delete-bucket.dita#topic_zdy_mmn_vs">Delete a Bucket</xref>.</li>
        <li> Upgrade Cluster 1 to Couchbase Server version 4.6.0. For instructions, see <xref
            href="upgrade.dita#topic_g3h_r2q_fw">Upgrading Couchbase Server</xref>.</li>
        <li>Create a new Bucket B with the conflict resolution type as <b>Timestamp</b> selected.
          For instructions, see <xref href="../clustersetup/create-bucket.dita#topic_fym_kmn_vs"
            >Create a New Bucket</xref>.</li>
        <li> Run the <codeph>cbbackupmgr</codeph> tool to restore data. When restoring data from
          backup (use the <cmdname>--force-updates</cmdname> option). Make sure to disable the
            <b>Conflict Resolution</b> option during the restore. This is required since the
          conflict resolution types of the source and destination clusters do not match.</li>
        <li> Once the restore operation is completed on Cluster 1, delete Bucket A’ from Cluster
          2.</li>
        <li> Upgrade Cluster 2 to Couchbase Server version 4.6.0.</li>
        <li>Create a new Bucket B’ with the Conflict Resolution type as <b>Timestamp</b>
          selected.</li>
        <li>Create a new unidirectional replication for Bucket B. For instructions, see <xref
            href="../xdcr/xdcr-create.dita#topic_e5r_qpn_vs/create-replication">Create
            Replication</xref>.<p/></li>
      </ol>
    </p>
    <p> For Scenario 2, perform the following steps to migrate your data to a new cluster: <ol
        id="ol_wqq_mm2_5y">
        <li dir="ltr">Stop application traffic coming to Cluster 1 (Bucket A) and Cluster 2 (Bucket A’).<p>
            <note>Note: Allow <i>enough time</i> for the replication queues to drain. Check the
                <b>outbound XDCR mutation</b> statistics to confirm. For instructions, see <xref
                href="../monitoring/ui-monitoring-statistics.dita#topic16695/outgoing_xdcr_stats"
                >Monitoring Outgoing XDCR</xref>.</note>
          </p></li>
        <li dir="ltr">Stop and delete replication to both clusters. For instructions, see <xref
            href="../xdcr/xdcr-create.dita#topic_e5r_qpn_vs/delete-replication">Delete
            Replication</xref>.</li>
        <li dir="ltr">Run the <codeph>cbbackupmgr</codeph> tool to backup the entire bucket data on
          both clusters. For instructions, see  <xref
            href="../backup-restore/enterprise-backup-restore.dita#topic_rr5_sv3_t5">cbbackupmgr
            tool</xref>.</li>
        <li dir="ltr">Delete the Bucket A from Cluster 1 and Bucket A’ from Cluster 2. For
          instructions, see <xref href="../clustersetup/delete-bucket.dita#topic_zdy_mmn_vs">Delete
            a Bucket</xref>.</li>
        <li dir="ltr">Upgrade both clusters to Couchbase Server version 4.6.0. For instructions, see
            <xref href="upgrade.dita#topic_g3h_r2q_fw">Upgrading Couchbase Server</xref>.</li>
        <li dir="ltr">Create new buckets on both clusters with the conflict resolution type as
            <b>Timestamp</b> selected. For instructions, see <xref
            href="../clustersetup/create-bucket.dita#topic_fym_kmn_vs">Create a New
          Bucket</xref>.</li>
        <li dir="ltr">Run the <codeph>cbbackupmgr</codeph> tool to restore data. When restoring data
          from backup (use the <cmdname>--force-updates</cmdname> option). Make sure to disable
            <b>Conflict Resolution</b> option during the restore. This is required because the
          conflict resolution types of the source and destination do not match. </li>
        <li dir="ltr">Once the restore operation is completed on both clusters, create replication
          streams both ways from Cluster 1 and Cluster 2. For instructions, see <xref
            href="../xdcr/xdcr-create.dita#topic_e5r_qpn_vs/create-replication">Create
            Replication</xref>.</li>
      </ol></p>
    
    
  </body>
  
</topic>
