<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_g1w_qpr_g4">
  <title>System Resource Requirements</title>
  <shortdesc>Although resource requirements will largely depend on the size and resource demands of
    your Couchbase deployment, there are some minimum and recommended specifications that you should
    follow.</shortdesc>
 <body>
    <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_ltx_3bp_n2b">
      <tgroup cols="3">
        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.8*"/>
        <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.87*"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry/>
            <entry>Minimum Specifications</entry>
            <entry>Recommended Specifications</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry><b>CPU</b></entry>
            <entry>2 GHz dual core x86_64</entry>
            <entry>3 GHz quad core x86_64<p>3 GHz six core x86_64 when using Cross Datacenter
                Replication (XDCR) and Views</p></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><b>RAM</b></entry>
            <entry>4 GB (physical)</entry>
            <entry>16 GB (physical)</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><b>Storage</b></entry>
            <entry>Block-based (HDD, SSD, EBS, iSCSI)<note>Network file systems such as CIFS and NFS
                are not supported.</note></entry>
            <entry>Block-based (HDD, SSD, EBS, iSCSI)<note>Network file systems such as CIFS and NFS
                are not supported.</note></entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
    <note type="tip">You can reduce the CPU and RAM resources below the minimum requirements for
      development and testing purposes. Resources can be as low as 1GB of free RAM beyond operating
      system requirements, and a single CPU core. However, you must use at least the minimum system
      requirements for production. </note>
    <p>The recommended specifications do not take into account your intended workload. You should
      follow the sizing guidelines detailed in <xref href="sizing-general.dita">Sizing
        Guidelines</xref> when deciding on machine specifications to run Couchbase Server.</p>
   
   
 </body>
</topic>
