<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic8026">
 <title>Red Hat and CentOS Installation</title>
 <shortdesc>Couchbase Server supports Red Hat (RHEL) and RHEL-based operating systems such as CentOS.</shortdesc>
 <body>
  <p>Before you start with the installation, ensure that dependency checking tool
        <cmdname>pkgconfig</cmdname> is installed. The Couchbase Server package requires this
      package to verify certain package dependencies have been met.  </p>
  <section><title>Check OpenSSL Dependency</title></section>
  <p>The Couchbase Server RPM performs dependency checks using <codeph>pkgconfig</codeph> for
   RHEL. Verify that <codeph>pkgconfig</codeph> is installed, and install it if necessary:</p>
  <p><codeblock outputclass="language-bash">sudo yum install -y pkgconfig</codeblock> Upon successful installation, the
   following output appears:
   <codeblock>Loaded plugins .... Installed: pkgconfig.x86_64 1:0.21-2.el5 Complete!</codeblock></p>
  <note type="important">Please ensure that you are running OpenSSL v1.0.1g or higher. On Monday,
   April 7th, 2014, an OpenSSL vulnerability was disclosed which has been called one of the worst
   security holes in recent internet history. The bug, called the Heartbleed bug, was introduced in
   OpenSSL version 1.0.1. It has been in the wild since March of 2012 and is patched with OpenSSL
   version 1.0.1g released on April 7th, 2014. The problem, tagged CVE-2014-0160, is described in
   detail in this <xref href="https://web.nvd.nist.gov/view/vuln/detail?vulnId=CVE-2014-0160"
    format="html" scope="external">NIST article</xref>. </note>
  
  <p>For CentOS systems, you can query the version of the OpenSSL package installed on your system
   by typing: <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"> rpm -q -a | grep "openssl"</codeblock></p>
  <p>You should receive output that looks like this:
   <codeblock>openssl-1.0.1e-16.el6_5.7.x86_64</codeblock></p>
  <p>If you are on one of the supported distributions, ensure that your OpenSSL version is
   up-to-date. If your distribution is not supported anymore, it is highly recommended that you
   transition to a supported operating system due to this bug's severity. </p>

  <section><title>Installing Using <cmdname>rpm</cmdname></title>
   <p>Install Couchbase Server on RHEL using the <cmdname>rpm</cmdname> command-line tool with the downloaded RPM package.</p>
   <p>Only 64-bit systems are supported. See <xref href="install-platforms.dita#topic1634"/> for
    details.</p>
   <p><b>Disable Transparent Huge Pages (THP)</b></p>
   <p>To disable THP, see <xref href="thp-disable.dita#topic_wmm_1ps_pv"/>.</p> 
   <p><b>Complete the Installation</b></p>
   <p>You must be logged in as <codeph>root</codeph> (superuser) or use the
    <cmdname>sudo</cmdname> command to complete the installation. Use the following command to
    install the Couchbase Server package:</p>
   <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">rpm --install couchbase-server-<varname>version</varname>.rpm</codeblock>
   <p>where <varname>version</varname> is the version number of the downloaded package.</p>
   <p>After the <cmdname>rpm</cmdname> command completes, the Couchbase Server service starts
    automatically. It is configured to start automatically under OS runlevels 2, 3, 4, and 5.
    Refer to the Red Hat RPM documentation for more information about installing packages using
    RPM.</p>
   <p>After installation is completed, the installation process displays a message similar to the following:</p>
   <codeblock>
    Minimum RAM required : 4 GB 
    System RAM configured : 8174464 kilobytes
    Minimum number of processors required :  4 cores 
    Number of processors on the system : 4 cores
    
    
    Starting couchbase-server[ OK ]
    
    You have successfully installed Couchbase Server. 
    Browse to http://host_name:8091/ to configure your server. 
    Refer to http://couchbase.com for additional resources.
    
    Update your firewall configuration 
    to allow connections to the following ports: 
    
    11211, 11210, 11209, 4369, 8091, 8092 and from 21100 to 21299.
    
    
    By using this software you agree to the End User License Agreement. 
    See /opt/couchbase/LICENSE.txt.
   </codeblock>
   
   
   <p>After the installation is completed, use the <cmdname>service</cmdname> command to manage
    the Couchbase Server service, including checking the current status. Refer to the Ubuntu documentation for instructions.</p>
   <p>To perform the initial Couchbase Server setup, open a web browser and access the Couchbase
    Web Console.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="rh-nonroot-nonsudo-"><title>Installing as non-root, non-sudo</title>
   <p>Installing on RHEL as a non-root, non-sudo user on a single machine.</p>
   <note type="important">This installation method is intended only for development purposes and is
    not supported in production.</note>
   <p>A non-sudo, non-root installation still runs Couchbase Server and all Couchbase command-line
    tools.</p>
   
   <ol>
    <li>After downloading the Couchbase Server RPM, go to the directory where it is located and
     extract it:
     <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">rpm2cpio couchbase-server-enterprise_<varname>version</varname>.rpm | cpio --extract --make-directories --no-absolute-filenames</codeblock>
     In the directory where the files were extracted, the <codeph>opt</codeph> and
      <codeph>etc</codeph> sub-directories are available. </li>
    <li>If you need to separately provide <codeph>openssl098e</codeph>, 
     put the contents of this library into <filepath>/opt/couchbase/lib</filepath>: 
     <ul>
      
      <li>Download <codeph>openssl098e-0.9.8e-17.el6.centos.2.x86_64.rpm</codeph>.</li>
      <li>Go to the directory where you extracted the Couchbase Server:
       <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">cd opt/couchbase.</codeblock></li>
      
      <li>Extract <codeph>openssl098e</codeph> RPM:
       <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">rpm2cpio openssl098e-0.9.8e-17.el6.centos.2.x86_64.rpm | cpio --extract --make-directories --no-absolute-filenames</codeblock></li>
      
      <li>Move the extracted files to the <filepath>/lib</filepath> directory for Couchbase Server:
       <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">mv /usr/lib64/* lib/</codeblock></li> 
     </ul></li>
    <li>After you extract the Couchbase Server installation files, go to the sub-directory:
     <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">cd opt/couchbase</codeblock></li>
    <li>Run the following script to relocate the Couchbase Server installation to the present
     working directory (PWD):<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">./bin/install/reloc.sh `pwd`</codeblock> This enables
     you to continue the installation as a non-root, non-sudo user.</li>
    <li>To run the server, use
     <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">./bin/couchbase-server \-- -noinput -detached</codeblock></li>
    <li>To stop the server, use <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">./bin/couchbase-server -k </codeblock></li>
   </ol>
  </section>
  <section><title>Installing using <cmdname>yum</cmdname></title>
   <p>This installation uses a package management system.</p>
   <p>To install on RHEL/CentOS version 6 or 7 using <cmdname>yum</cmdname>:</p>
   <ol>
    <li>Download and install the appropriate meta package from the <xref
      href="http://packages.couchbase.com/releases/couchbase-release/couchbase-release-1.0-2-x86_64.rpm"
      format="html" scope="external">package download location</xref>. This will install the package
     source and the Couchbase public
     keys:<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">curl -O http://packages.couchbase.com/releases/couchbase-release/couchbase-release-1.0-2-x86_64.rpm 
sudo rpm -i couchbase-release-1.0-2-x86_64.rpm</codeblock></li>
    <li>Proceed with installing the actual Couchbase Server package:
     <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">sudo yum update</codeblock> Then:
     <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">sudo yum install couchbase-server</codeblock>
     Or: <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">sudo yum install couchbase-server-community</codeblock></li>
   </ol>
  </section>
  
 </body>
 
 
 
 
</topic>
