<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ldx_gqs_g4">
  <title>Installing on RHEL and CentOS</title><shortdesc>Install Couchbase Server on RHEL using the <cmdname>rpm</cmdname> command-line tool with the downloaded RPM
    package.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>Only 64-bit systems are supported. See <xref href="install-platforms.dita#topic1634"/> for
      details.</p>
    
    <note type="important">RHEL6 and other newer Linux distributions often have the option Transparent Huge Pages (THP) 
      enabled by default. It is strongly recommended to disable the THP feature when 
      installing Couchbase Server. While THP are good for many applications, they cause problems for databases.</note>
    <section><title>Disable Transparent Huge Pages (THP)
    </title><p>To permanently disable both THP and THP defrag, the preferred method is to add the following to <filepath>/etc/rc.local</filepath>:</p>
        <codeblock>for i in /sys/kernel/mm/*transparent_hugepage/enabled; do
 echo never > $i; 
 done 
 for i in /sys/kernel/mm/*transparent_hugepage/defrag; do
 echo never > $i; 
 done </codeblock>
      <p>Alternatively,
        you can append the statement <codeph>transparent_hugepage=never</codeph> to the kernel boot
        line in <filepath>/etc/grub.conf</filepath>, which will disable <codeph>THP</codeph> but not
          <codeph>THP defrag</codeph>. This method can be used when it is not desirable to maintain
        a file <filepath>/etc/rc.local</filepath>. </p><p>Both methods requires that you restart the operating system. </p></section>  
    <section><title>Complete the installation</title>
    <p> Log in as root (superuser) to complete the installation:</p>
      <codeblock>
root-&gt; rpm --install couchbase-server-<varname>version</varname>.rpm 
     </codeblock>
      <p>where <varname>version</varname> is the version number of the downloaded package.</p>
      <p>After the <cmdname>rpm</cmdname> command completes, Couchbase Server starts automatically.
        It is configured to automatically start during boot under the 2, 3, 4, and 5 run levels.
        Refer to the Red Hat RPM documentation for more information about installing packages using
        RPM.</p>
      <p>After installation is completed, the installation process displays a message similar to the following:</p>
      <codeblock>
Minimum RAM required : 4 GB 
    System RAM configured : 8174464 KB
    Minimum number of processors required :  4 cores 
    Number of processors on the system : 4 cores
    
    
Starting couchbase-server[ OK ]

You have successfully installed Couchbase Server. 
    Browse to http://host_name:8091/ to configure your server. 
   Refer to http://couchbase.com for additional resources.

   Update your firewall configuration 
    to allow connections to the following ports: 
   
    11211, 11210, 11209, 4369, 8091, 8092 and from 21100 to 21299.


By using this software you agree to the End User License Agreement. 
See /opt/couchbase/LICENSE.txt.
     </codeblock>
    
    
      <p>After the installation is completed, use the RHEL service or the  <cmdname>systemctl</cmdname> command to
        manage the Couchbase Server service, including checking the current status and creating the
        links to turn on and off the automatic start-up. </p>
      
      <note type="note">For CentOS 7 and later, you can use the <cmdname>systemctl</cmdname> command to manage the Couchbase Server service.  </note>
      <p>To perform the initial Couchbase Server setup, open a web browser and access the Couchbase
        Web Console.</p>
    </section>
  <!--  
    <section><title>Installing <codeph>cbq</codeph></title>CentOS and other Red Hat distributions
      include a monitoring tool called <codeph>cbq</codeph>, which is installed in the directory
        <filepath>/sbin</filepath>. <p>Be aware that the Couchbase client prompt
          <codeph>cbq</codeph>, which is installed in <filepath>/opt/couchbase/bin</filepath> and
        used for N1QL, won't work by default unless you specifically invoke it with its full path,
          <filepath>/opt/couchbase/bin/</filepath> . The other way to invoke the Couchbase client
        prompt <codeph>cbq</codeph> for N1QL is to alter your PATH variable so that it will first
        search for <filepath>/opt/couchbase/bin.</filepath>
      </p></section>-->
  </body>
</topic>
