<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_fdf_nls_g4">
  <title>Installing multiple instances</title>
  <shortdesc>Multiple instances of Couchbase Server can be installed on one physical machine for the
    Linux operating system.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <note type="important">This installation method is intended for development purposes only and
      not supported in production.</note>
    <p>The number of Couchbase Server instances running on a single machine depends on its physical capacity.</p>

    
    <section><title>Requirements</title> Make sure that a minimum of 4Gb RAM and 8 Core CPUs are
      available for each Couchbase Server instance. When installing multiple instances on a physical
      machine, install as one of these two users: <ul>
        <li>sudo user</li>
        <li>non-root, non-sudo user </li>
      </ul><note type="note">Refer to the lists of the reserved Couchbase Server network ports and
        user-defined ports before creating any new user-defined ports. </note><note type="note">The number of
        Couchbase Servers that can be installed on a physical machine depends on the available RAM
        and CPU capacities. </note></section>
    
    <section><title>Setting up multiple instances</title>
      <p>To set up multiple instances running on a physical machine:</p>
      
      <ol>
        <li>Install Couchbase Server as a sudo user or as a non-root, non-sudo user. <p>See <xref
              href="rhel-non-root-sudo.dita#topic_atz_r3s_g4"/> for RHEL/CentOS and  <xref
              href="ubuntu-non-root-sudo.dita#topic_gdp_bcf_2p"/> for Ubuntu/Debian.
              </p></li>
        <li>Create user-defined ports in the file <filepath> /opt/couchbase/etc/couchbase/static_config</filepath>.</li>
        <li>In the <filepath>/etc/security/limits.conf</filepath> file, make sure that the hard and soft limits for the
          <codeph>nofile</codeph> parameter are set to a value greater than 10240.</li>
        <li>Change the <codeph>short_name</codeph> parameter that identifies the instance (default: ns_1), to a different
          <codeph>short_name</codeph> in the <filepath> /opt/couchbase/etc/couchbase/static_config</filepath> file. <ul>
            <li>The <codeph>short_name</codeph> value must be different for each instance that resides on the same physical
              server.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Change the two occurrences of <codeph>short_name</codeph> in the <filepath>/opt/couchbase/bin/couchbase-server</filepath>
          file. For example, use the <codeph>sed</codeph> utility. <ul>
            <li>
             <codeblock>sed -i ‘s/ns_1/ns_inst1/g’ bin/couchbase-server</codeblock></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Start the Couchbase Server instance.</li>
        <li>Repeat the steps to install other instances.</li>
      </ol>
      
      <note type="important">While creating a cluster,  make sure that the <codeph>perServer</codeph> RAM quota is
        calculated looking at the number of instances to be installed on that machine.
      When configuring a cluster instance, Couchbase Server provides a default value for the
        perServer RAM quota. This default value is based on the total RAM quota available on the
        physical machine. Modify this value as needed. 
      </note>
    </section>
      
    <section><title>Troubleshooting</title><p>If any bucket created on the
          nodes appear to be in a pending state, or if rebalance fails with an error <screen>not_all_nodes_are_ready_yet</screen>
          there could be a mismatch of the <codeph>short_name</codeph> value in the following files:</p>
      <codeblock>/opt/couchbase/bin/couchbase-server
/opt/couchbase/etc/couchbase/static_config</codeblock>
    </section>
      <section><title>Limitations</title>
        <p>Following are some of the limitations for running multiple instance of Couchbase Server on a single machine:</p>
        <ul><li>Some of the Couchbase Server tools will be unavailable to run on the customized ports for multiple Couchbase instances:
        <ul>
          
        
              <li><cmdname>cbrecovery</cmdname></li>
          <li><cmdname>cbworkloadgen</cmdname></li></ul></li>
              <li>Offline upgrade for multiple instances is unavailable.</li>
              <li>If a bucket is created on a dedicated port, some of the operations can result in the error 
               <codeph> could not listen on port xxx</codeph>, even though the operation still succeeds. This error is logged
                regardless of the port that is used.</li>
            </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
