<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1601">
  <title>Setup overview</title>
  <shortdesc>Quick overview of the setup process.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <ol>
      <li>Make sure your machine meets the system requirements.</li>
      <li>Install Couchbase Server. <p>To install Couchbase Server, download the appropriate package
          for your chosen platform and follow the corresponding platform-specific instructions. </p><ul>
          <li>To perform a fresh installation (not an upgrade) over a previous Couchbase Server
            installation, remove Couchbase Server and any associated data from your machine before
            installing.</li>
          <li>To retain existing datasets from a previous Couchbase Server installation, perform an
            upgrade installation.</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li>Test the installation by connecting and storing some data using the native memcached
          protocol.</li>
      <li>Set up the new Couchbase Server system by completing the web-based setup instructions. </li>
    </ol>
    <note type="warning">Implement the same operating system on all machines within each discreet
      cluster. If XDCR (Cross Data Center Replication) is used, implement the same operating system
      on the target cluster(s) as on the source cluster(s). Mixed clusters and mixed XDCR deployments
      are not supported due to incompatibility caused by differences in the number of shards between
      platforms. </note>
    
    
      <table frame="all" id="table_sqb_db3_mp">
        <title>Example deployments</title>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.08*"/>
          <colspec colname="newCol3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.54*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Scenario</entry>
              <entry>Implementation</entry>
              <entry>Compatibility</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>Standalone cluster</entry>
              <entry>Cluster A with 4 nodes all Linux OR all Windows</entry>
              <entry>OK</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Standalone cluster</entry>
              <entry>Cluster A with 2 nodes Linux AND 2 nodes Windows</entry>
              <entry>NOT OK</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Separate discreet clusters</entry>
              <entry>Cluster A = Linux, Cluster B = Windows</entry>
              <entry>OK</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Replicating clusters</entry>
              <entry>Cluster A = Linux with XDCR to Cluster B = Linux</entry>
              <entry>OK</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Replicating clusters</entry>
              <entry>Cluster A = Windows with XDCR to Cluster B = Linux</entry>
              <entry>NOT OK</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    <section><title>Installation location</title> The default installation location for Couchbase
      Server depends on the operating system. <p>By default, Couchbase Server installs under the
        following locations:</p><table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2.77*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Platform</entry>
              <entry>Directory</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>Linux</entry>
              <entry><filepath>/opt/couchbase</filepath></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Windows</entry>
              <entry><filepath>C:\Program Files\Couchbase Server\</filepath></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Mac OS X</entry>
              <entry><filepath>/Applications/Couchbase
                  Server.app/Contents/Resources/couchbase-core/bin/</filepath></entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table></section>
    
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <link href="http://www.couchbase.com/downloads" scope="external" format="html">
        <linktext>Couchbase downloads</linktext></link>
      <link href="init-setup.dita"></link>
      <link href="testing.dita"></link>
      <link href="upgrading.dita"></link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
