<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_pkl_vdz_bq">
  <title>Supported upgrade paths</title>
  <shortdesc>The supplied supported paths apply both to online and offline upgrades.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>There are two basic upgrade paths for the Couchbase Server:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Couchbase 2.x to a later version of Couchbase 2.x.</li>
      <li>Couchbase 2.x to Couchbase 3.0.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>You must upgrade to the latest available production version before upgrading to Couchbase
      Server 3.0.x. </p>
    <p>For Enterprise Edition customers, that version is Couchbase Server 2.5.2. For Community
      Edition users, that version is Couchbase Server 2.2.0.</p>
    <p>Prior to upgrade, back up the files.</p>
    <table>
      <tgroup cols="2">
        <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
        <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="3.23*"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Platform</entry>
            <entry>Location</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>Linux</entry>
            <entry><filepath>/opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/config/config.dat</filepath></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Windows</entry>
            <entry><filepath>C:\Program Files\Couchbase\Server\Config\var\lib\couchbase\config\config.dat</filepath></entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
    <section>
      <title>Upgrading from 1.8.0 to 2.x or later</title>
      <p>There is no direct upgrade between versions 1.8.0 and 3.x. If you are upgrading from
        Couchbase Server 1.8 to Couchbase Server 2.0 or later, there are more steps for the upgrade
        because you must first upgrade to Couchbase 1.8.1 for data compatibility.</p>
      <p>Follow the directions explained in <xref
          href="http://docs.couchbase.com/admin/admin/Install/upgrade-offline.html" format="html"
          scope="external">Offline upgrade</xref>. </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Upgrading from Community Edition to Enterprise Edition</title>
      <note type="note">Use the same Couchbase Server version number when upgrading to the
        Enterprise Edition. Version differences can result in a failed upgrade.</note>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Upgrading to 2.5.x</title>
      <p>Before upgrading to 2.5.x:</p>
      <p>If buckets are using any of the following reserved ports, change the port for the bucket.
        Otherwise, XDCR data encryption won't be available. (This applies both to offline and online
        upgrades.) </p>
      <note type="important">Verify that the Secure Socket Layer (SSL) reserved ports are available
        prior to using XDCR data encryption. </note>
      <p>With XDCR data encryption, the following ports are reserved:</p>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="3.41*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Port</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>11214</entry>
              <entry>Incoming SSL proxy</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>11215</entry>
              <entry>Internal outgoing SSL proxy</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>18091</entry>
              <entry>Internal REST HTTPS for SSL</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>18092</entry>
              <entry>Internal CAPI HTTPS for SSL </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <note type="note">If Couchbase Server 2.5 has more than two (2) replicas, the first swap
        rebalance takes additional time. This behavior is expected.</note>
      <note type="restriction">The RPM package manager does not support the
          <codeph>--relocate</codeph> option because it cannot correctly detect which release must
        be kept and which must be replaced. As result, all binary files and their wrapper scripts
        cannot be correctly installed into the relocated bin directory during upgrade. </note>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Upgrading to 3.0.x</title>
      <p>With encryption access, the following port is reserved for client access to data nodes
        using SSL.</p>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="3.41*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Port</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>11207</entry>
              <entry>Internal/External Bucket Port for SSL</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Upgrading to 4.0</title>
      <p>When upgrading to Couchbase Server version 4.0, all nodes must contain only the data
        service. Once you have an entire cluster in version 4.0 and with the nodes that contain only
        data, you can add nodes that run the other two services, query and index.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
