<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3429">
 <title>Ubuntu/Debian Installation</title>
  <shortdesc>This installation information applies both to Ubuntu and Debian platforms.</shortdesc>
 <body>
   
   <p>Only 64 bit systems are supported.</p>
   
   <p>You need to be logged in as root (superuser) to complete the installation.</p><ol>
    <li>For Ubuntu version 12.04 and Debian 7, you need OpenSSL 1.x. Install a specific OpenSSL
          dependency by running:<p><codeph> root-&gt; apt-get install libssl <varname>version</varname>
            </codeph></p></li>
     <li>To install, use the <cmdname>dpkg</cmdname> command-line tool using the
          <codeph>DEB</codeph> file that you downloaded. The following example uses
          <cmdname>dpkg</cmdname> for installation:
          <codeblock>dpkg -i couchbase-server version.deb</codeblock><p>where
            <varname>version</varname> is the version number of the downloaded package.</p><p>After
          the <cmdname>dpkg</cmdname> command is executed, Couchbase Server starts automatically and
          is configured to automatically start during boot under the 2, 3, 4, and 5 run levels.
          Refer to the Ubuntu documentation for more information about installing packages using the
          Debian package manager.</p><p>After installation is completed, the installation process
          displays a message similar to the following:
        </p><codeblock>Selecting previously deselected package couchbase-server. 
(Reading database … 73755 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking couchbase-server (from couchbase-server_x86_64_2.1.0-xxx-rel.deb) … 
libssl0.9.8 is installed. Continue installing 
Minimum RAM required : 4 GB 
System RAM configured : 4058708 kilobytes
      
      
Minimum number of processors required : 4 cores 
Number of processors on the system : 4 cores
Setting up couchbase-server  … 

Starting couchbase-server[  OK  ]

You have successfully installed Couchbase Server.
Browse to http://cen-1733:8091/ to configure your server.
Refer to http://couchbase.com for additional resources.

Update your firewall configuration to
allow connections to the following ports: 11211, 11210, 11209, 4369,
8091, 8092, 18091, 18092, 11214, 11215 and from 21100 to 21299.

By using this software you agree to the End User License Agreement.
See /opt/couchbase/LICENSE.txt.    </codeblock></li>
  </ol>
   <note type="note">After successful installation, use the <cmdname>service</cmdname> command to manage the
     Couchbase Server service, including checking the current status. Refer to the Ubuntu
     documentation for instructions.</note>
  
   <p>Open a web browser and access the Couchbase Web Console to set up Couchbase Server.</p>
   <section id="deb-nonroot-nonsudo"> <title>Installing as non-root, non-sudo</title>
     <p>Installation on Ubuntu as non-root, non-sudo user is used is used only for development purposes.</p>
     <note type="important">This installation method is intended only for development purposes and is
       not supported in production.</note>
     <p>Only 64 bit systems are supported.</p>
     <p>A non-root, non-sudo installation will run Couchbase
       Server and all Couchbase Server command-line tools. </p>
     <ol>
       <li>After downloading the Couchbase Server DEB package, go to the directory where it is located and
         extract it:<p>
           <codeblock>dpkg-deb -x couchbase-server-<varname>version</varname>.deb $HOME</codeblock>
         </p><p>In the directory where you extracted the files, you will see
           <filepath>/opt</filepath> and <filepath>/etc</filepath> subdirectories.</p></li>
       <li>After you extract the Couchbase Server installation files, go to the subdirectory:
         <codeblock> cd opt/couchbase</codeblock></li>
       <li>Run the following script to relocate the Couchbase Server installation to the present
         working directory (PWD):<p>
           <codeblock>./bin/install/reloc.sh `pwd`</codeblock>
         </p><p>This allows you to continue the installation as a non-root, non-sudo user.</p></li>
       <li>To run the server use
         <codeblock>./bin/couchbase-server -- -noinput -detached</codeblock></li>
       <li>To stop the server use <codeblock>./bin/couchbase-server -k</codeblock>
       </li>
     </ol>
   </section>
   <section><title>Installing using <codeph>apt-get</codeph></title>
     <p>This installation uses a package management system.</p>
     <p>To install on Ubuntu 12.04, Ubuntu 14.04 and Debian 7 using <codeph>apt-get</codeph>:</p>
     <ol>
       <li>Download and install the appropriate meta package from the <xref
         href="http://packages.couchbase.com/releases/couchbase-release/couchbase-release-1.0-0-amd64.deb"
         format="html" scope="external">package download location</xref>. This will install the
         package source and the Couchbase public
         keys:<codeblock>curl -O http://packages.couchbase.com/releases/couchbase-release/couchbase-release-1.0-1-amd64.deb   
           sudo dpkg -i couchbase-release-1.0-1-amd64.deb</codeblock></li>
       <li>Proceed with installing the actual Couchbase Server package:
         <codeblock>sudo apt-get update
           sudo apt-get install couchbase-server 
           OR
           sudo apt-get install couchbase-server-community</codeblock></li>
     </ol>
   </section>
 </body>
 
</topic>
