<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic19310">
  <title>Upgrading Couchbase Server</title><shortdesc>The Couchbase Server can be upgraded online (using swap rebalance or the standard online
    upgrade), offline, or using XDCR.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    
    <p><note type="remember">Before performing an upgrade, whether it is online or offline, back up your data.</note></p> 
    
    <p>Install the latest version of the Couchbase Server. The installer will automatically detect
      the files from the earlier installation and convert them to the correct format, if needed.</p>
    
    
    <table>
      <tgroup cols="3">
        <colspec colname="col1"/>
        <colspec colname="col2"/>
        <colspec colname="col3"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Feature</entry>
            <entry>Online upgrades</entry>
            <entry>Offline upgrades</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>Applications remain available</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Cluster stays in operation</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Cluster must be shut down</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Time required</entry>
            <entry>Requires rebalance, upgrade, rebalance per node</entry>
            <entry>All nodes in cluster upgraded at once</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
    
    <note type="caution">Replication of certain per-node keys is broken after a node is first
      upgraded offline from 2.x to 3.0 and then added back to the formerly 2.x cluster that is now
      upgraded to 3.0. When performing an online upgrade from the Couchbase Server 2.x to 3.x,
      always fully delete the 2.x package (including the config files) before installing the 3.x
      package.</note>
    <section><title>Online upgrades</title></section>
    <p>When you perform an online upgrade, there is no need to take 
      the cluster down and application keeps running during the upgrade process. You can upgrade the Couchbase 
      Server using a standard online upgrade, or an online upgrade
      with swap rebalance.</p>
   
    
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Online upgrade with swap rebalance</dt>
        <dd>For swap rebalance, first add a node to the cluster and then perform a swap rebalance to
          shift data from an old node to the new one. This is the preferred upgrade method when
          there is not enough cluster capacity to handle data once an old node is removed. It is
          also much faster from the standard online upgrade, because you only need to rebalance each
          upgraded node once. For this procedure see <xref href="upgrade-online.dita">Online upgrade
            with swap rebalance</xref>.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Standard online upgrade</dt>
        <dd>For standard online upgrade, take down one or two nodes from a cluster and rebalance so
          that remaining nodes handle incoming requests. You can use this upgrade option only if you
          have enough remaining cluster capacity to handle the nodes you want to remove and upgrade. </dd>
         <dd>Standard online upgrades can take a while, because each node must be taken out of the
          cluster, upgraded to a current version, brought back into the cluster, and then
          rebalanced.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <p> <note type="important">Swap rebalance is recommended because it always maintains cluster
      capacity. Use the standard online upgrade only if upgrade with swap rebalance is not
      possible.</note>
      <note type="important">The suggested procedure is to rebalance and remove a node, 
      proceed with a swap upgrade as if the removed node was an extra ‘spare’ node, and once 
      this is done add and rebalance the extra node back in.</note></p>
    
    <section><title>Offline upgrades</title>
  
    <p>Offline upgrades can take less time than online upgrades
      because all nodes in the cluster can be upgraded at once.</p>
    <p>An offline upgrade must be well-planned and scheduled. First, shut down your application so
        that no more incoming data arrives. Second, verify that the disk write queue is 0 and then
        shut down each node. This way you know that the Couchbase Server has stored all items onto
        disk during shutdown. After shutting down applications and nodes, perform the upgrade on
        each machine and then bring the cluster and applications back again.</p>
      <p>To perform an offline upgrade, see <xref href="upgrade-offline.dita">Offline upgrade</xref>.</p>
    
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Upgrading with XDCR</title> This upgrade has to be taken cautiously and only in
      specific situations. Be sure that you are familiar with all requirements before deciding to
      use this process.  </section>
    
   
  
    
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <link href="../CLI/cbbackup_tool.dita"></link>
      <link href="../CLI/cbrestore_tool.dita"></link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
