<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_tc1_vry_p4">
  <title>Single node upgrade</title>
  <shortdesc>To upgrade a single Couchbase Server node, first back it up with the tool <cmdname>cbbackup</cmdname> and then install the
    upgrade software package.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <note type="note">Steps for upgrading a Couchbase Server node explained in this section are identical for an
      online upgrade (for a node that has been removed from the cluster) or an offline upgrade (for
      a node that has not yet been added to the cluster).</note>
 
    
    <ol>
        <li>Download Couchbase Server package.</li>
      <li>Use <xref href="../cli/cbbackup-tool.dita#cbbackup-tool">cbbackup</xref> to back up the
        cluster data.</li>
      <li>Back up the server-specific configuration files. 
        While the upgrade scripts perform a backup of the configuration and data files, 
        make your own backup of these files as best practice. 
        The configuration files are found in <filepath>/opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/config/ </filepath>by default.
      </li>
        <li>Stop Couchbase Server service.</li>
        <li>Check your host name configuration. If you have deployed Couchbase Server in a cloud
          service, or if you are using hostnames rather than IP addresses, you must verify that the 
          hostname has been configured correctly and is resolvable before performing the upgrade. </li>
      <li>Perform the upgrade installation for your platform; see the <xref
          href="installation-guide-intro.dita#concept_pvp_lyf_ss">Installing</xref> section
        appropriate for your platform for detailed installation instructions.</li>
      </ol> 
  </body>

</topic>
