<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_zxk_p14_14">
  <title>Upgrading with XDCR(???)</title>
  <shortdesc>When XDCR (Cross Data Center Replication) is implemented, the upgrade process depends
    on the XDCR scenario.</shortdesc>
 
  <body>     
      <p>The <codeph>xmem</codeph> replication mode performs replication on a destination cluster
      with the memcached protocol. This is the default mode for the Couchbase Server replications.
      The <codeph>capi</codeph> mode performs replications over a REST protocol. </p>
    
    <ul>
      <li><codeph>xmem</codeph> - only Couchbase Servers 2.2 and later support it.</li>
      <li><codeph>capi</codeph> - both Couchbase Servers 2.2 and earlier support it.</li>
    </ul>
      
      <p>The following prerequisites need to be considered:</p>
      
      <ul>
        <li>Network port 11210 needs to be open between nodes for <codeph>xmem</codeph> mode of replication to
          work.</li>
        <li>In general, delete the replication, complete the upgrade, then recreate the
          replication.</li>
        <li>When upgrading the Couchbase Server, make sure that both the source and destination
        clusters support the desired replication mode.</li>
        <li>To use XDCR data encryption with Secure Socket Layer (SSL), all nodes must be upgraded to at
          least Couchbase Server 2.5 Enterprise Edition.</li>
      </ul>
      
    <section> <title>Upgrade scenarios</title>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Both source and destination clusters are pre-2.2 and both are upgrading to pre-2.2
            versions.</dt>
          <dd>This scenario is supported since both clusters use <codeph>capi</codeph>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Both source and destination clusters are pre-2.2 and the destination is upgrading to
            2.2.</dt>
          <dd>This is a safe upgrade path since the source cluster communicates via
            <codeph>capi</codeph> to the destination cluster.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        
        <dlentry>
          <dt>The source cluster is upgrading to 2.2 or later and the destination is pre-2.2.</dt>
          <dd>This is
            a safe upgrade path because the source cluster can communicate via <codeph>capi</codeph>
            or <codeph>xmem</codeph> to the destination cluster.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Both source and destination clusters are upgrading from pre-2.2 to 2.2.</dt>
          <dd>This is a safe
            upgrade because the XDCR protocol remains the same (<codeph>capi</codeph>).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        
        <dlentry>
          <dt>The source cluster is upgrading from pre–2.2 to 2.2 or later and the destination
            cluster is Elasticsearch.</dt>
          <dd>Since the source cluster must use <codeph>capi</codeph> for
            replication: <ol>
              <li>Delete all XDCR replications on your source cluster. </li>
              <li>Upgrade the source cluster to 2.2 or later. </li>
              <li>Re-create the XDCR replications using Version 1 for the XDCR protocol. Version 1 is
                <codeph>capi</codeph> replication.</li>
            </ol></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Both source and destination clusters are upgraded from pre-2.2 to 2.5 or later. </dt>
          <dd>This is
            not a safe upgrade path because the cluster upgrades are not synchronized. If the source
            upgrade completes prior to destination upgrade, incorrect data replication and failures in
            conflict resolution can occur.<ol>
              <li>Delete all XDCR replications on your source cluster. </li>
              <li>Upgrade the source cluster to 2.5 or later. </li>
              <li>Upgrade the destination cluster to 2.5 or later.</li>
              <li>Re-create the XDCR replications using Version 2 for the XDCR protocol. Version 2 is
                <codeph>xmem</codeph> replication.</li>
            </ol></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      
    
    </section>

      
  </body>
</topic>
