<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_y23_jjv_xs">
  <title>Upgrade Options</title><shortdesc>Upgrade a Couchbase Server cluster in a manner that is best suited to your operations.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    
    <p>Couchbase Server can be upgraded in multiple ways each with their own pros and cons. 
      Which way is best for your cluster will depend on a few factors in your architecture and company organization (e.g. SLAs). 
      On this and subsequent pages of this section we will discuss not just the mechanics of an upgrade, but why each may or may work best for you.</p>   
    
    <section><title>Option #1 - Rolling Online Upgrade</title>
      <p>A rolling online upgrade is the recommended upgrade process for a Couchbase Server cluster and should be chosen unless you 
        have special circumstances that would rule it out. This method avoids downtime for the database and 
        applications because all operations continue normally and High Availability can be maintained. Rolling upgrades use Couchbase's 
        rebalance capability to redistribute the data amongst the nodes of a cluster, keeping it available for the duration of the upgrade. 
        Prior to version 5.0, special care should be taken when upgrading nodes running the index service.</p>  
      <p>Couchbase Server is specifically designed to provide fully online upgrades.  If you find this is not the case, please open a support ticket or 
        report a bug.</p>
      <p>There are three options for rolling online upgrades:</p> 
      
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Swap Rebalance</dt>
          <dd>This method entails introducing new nodes into a Couchbase Server cluster as you remove an equal number of nodes to be upgraded. 
            It uses a feature called Swap Rebalance to move data efficiently 
            from the existing nodes to the new nodes, without involving other nodes in the cluster. 
          </dd>
          <dd>As long as you swap an equal number of nodes (e.g. one for one, two for two, etc.), a Swap Rebalance will be triggered. 
            This also keeps the cluster capacity consistent so as to not interfere with the load running on the cluster.
            
            While this method is the safest and provides the most availability, it may require multiple rebalances and therefore be longer as compared to other upgrade options. 
            If the speed of an upgrade is a primary concern for your cluster, see <xref
              href="../clustersetup/setup-failover-graceful.dita#topic_ysk_ycm_zs">Graceful
              Failover</xref> or <xref href="upgrade-offline.dita#topic_q11_1my_p4"/>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Remove and Rebalance</dt>
          <dd>This method is suitable when you must complete the upgrade using only the nodes currently in the cluster but want to maintain High Availability during the upgrade process.
            Since this will reduce the capacity of the cluster, it is important to ensure that there is enough spare capacity across 
            all necessary resources (disk, CPU, RAM, etc) during the upgrade process.
          This process involves removing one running node from the cluster and rebalancing.  That node can then be upgraded and used in the Swap Rebalance
          upgrade procedure above.  When the last node has been upgraded, it can be rebalanced back into the cluster to return to full capacity.</dd>
          <dd>Like a swap rebalance upgrade, this style will require multiple rebalances to
            complete.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>  
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="graceful">
          <dt>Graceful Failover and Delta Recovery</dt>
          <dd>This option involves performing a rolling online upgrade using a <xref
              href="../clustersetup/setup-failover-graceful.dita#topic_ysk_ycm_zs">Graceful
            Failover</xref> followed by <xref href="../clustersetup/rejoin-cluster.html#story-h2-2" scope="remote" format="html"> Delta Recovery</xref> 
            instead of the full addition and removal of nodes in a Swap Rebalance. 
            It is typically faster and less resource intensive because data does not need to be completely moved between nodes, rather 
            the replicas are synchronized and activated during the failover and the data resynchronized when the node returns following the upgrade. 
            Another advantage compared to the other online upgrades is that this method preserves the global secondary 
            indexes and doesn’t need to rebuild them. </dd>
          <dd>The primary downside to this option is decreased High Availability as replicas are used for faster failover and not recreated 
            until the node is returned. This option is not available when choosing to upgrade with net-new systems 
            (as in the case of many cloud deployments) since those new nodes would not have the previous nodes’ 
            data in place. Use Option #1 when upgrading with net-new systems.
        </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      
    </section>
    <section id="intercluster"><title>Option #2 - Upgrade Using XDCR</title>
      <p>For this option, another Couchbase Server cluster is created (or already exists) and connected via 
        Cross Datacenter Replication (<xref href="../xdcr/xdcr-intro.dita#topic1500">XDCR</xref>). 
        The application is transitioned to use one cluster while the other(s) is/are upgraded. 
        While this upgrade process is relatively straightforward to set up, it
        requires more investment in servers/instances and networking, as well as a change to the
        application so that it can switch between clusters. It is best used when an existing XDCR connection is already in 
        place, the application needs a live rollback option or the original cluster cannot be upgraded online for some reason.
      </p>  
      <p>Keep in mind that XDCR is eventually consistent between clusters and so care should be taken when 
        switching the application from one to the other.</p>
      <p>For the fastest upgrade, the unused cluster(s) can be upgraded following the offline upgrade steps below
        (if not installed anew)</p> 
    </section>
    <section id="offline"><title>Option #3 - Offline Upgrade</title>
      <p>Choose an offline upgrade when the situation calls for an easy and fast upgrade method as well as when the database can incur a controlled outage. 
        The offline upgrade is more likely to succeed in situations where an online upgrade option might fail, but also the rare time a cluster is unstable 
        and has been determined that a Couchbase Server upgrade will fix a specific issue.</p>
      <p>This procedure involves upgrading one or more nodes without removing them from the cluster.  In some cases the whole cluster
        may be shut down, upgraded and restarted.</p>
      <p>It is recommended to disable auto-failover before using this method and to re-enable it once complete.</p>
      
    </section>
    <section><title>Choosing the Upgrade Strategy</title>
      
      <p>Both the online and offline upgrade processes have trade-offs. The following table
      illustrates some important aspects of the two upgrade strategies.</p>
    <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_shv_yr2_zs">
      <title>Differences between upgrades</title>
      <tgroup cols="4">
        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <colspec colname="c4" colnum="4" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Feature</entry>
            <entry>Online upgrade</entry>
            <entry>XDCR upgrade</entry>
            <entry>Offline upgrade</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>Applications remain available</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
           
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Cluster stays in operation</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Cluster must be shut down</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Typical steps</entry>
            <entry>Rebalance, upgrade, rebalance</entry>
            <entry>Switch to XDCR cluster, upgrade, switch back</entry>
            <entry>Upgrade one or more nodes without removing from cluster.</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
   <note type="important">Mac OSX does not support a direct upgrade. When upgrading on this
      platform, first back up your data and perform a clean uninstall of the old version. Once you
      install the new version, restore the data back to the new cluster.</note> </section>
   
    
  </body>
</topic>
