<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2033">
  <title>User-defined Ports</title>
  <shortdesc>You can install and run Couchbase Server with user-defined ports rather than with the
    default ports.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>To run Couchbase server on user-defined ports, make sure that the minimum RAM and CPU are
      available for the Couchbase instance. </p>
    <note type="important">If you want to run Couchbase Server on user-defined ports and with multiple
      instances running on a single machine, you have to keep in mind that the standard RPM
      installation for Linux doesn’t allow you to specify separate installation paths needed
      for separate multiple instances. Therefore, you must perform multiple non-root (sudo or
      non-sudo) installations instead.</note>
    
    
    <section><title>Setting up Couchbase Server with User-defined Ports</title>
    <ol>
      <li>Install Couchbase Server
        <ul>
          <li>If Couchbase Server is already installed and running, stop it.</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li>Add the new user-defined ports to the <filepath>/opt/couchbase/etc/couchbase/static_config</filepath>
        file. <ul>
          <li>The <filepath>/opt/couchbase/etc/couchbase/static_config</filepath> is the location
              from where the Couchbase Server picks up the configuration parameters.</li>
          <li>If port numbers are not specified, default ports are used.</li>
          <li>To override some or all default ports, append the user-defined ports to the file.</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li>(Optional) CAPI port (default 8092) can be edited in the
          <filepath>/opt/couchbase/etc/couchdb/default.d/capi.ini</filepath> file by replacing 8092 with the new
        port name.</li>
      <li>If the Couchbase Server was previously configured, delete the
            <filepath>opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/config/config.dat</filepath> file to remove
          the old configuration.</li>
      <li>Start Couchbase Server.</li>
    </ol>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Ports to Change</title>
      
    <p>The following are the user-defined ports to add, replace, or append to the
        <filepath>/opt/couchbase/etc/couchbase/static_config</filepath> file. </p>
    <codeblock>{rest_port, 9000}.                                   
{mccouch_port, 8999}.                         
{memcached_port, 12000}.
{memcached_dedicated_port, 11999}.
{moxi_port, 12001}.
{short_name, "ns_1"}.
{ssl_rest_port,11000}.                       
{ssl_capi_port,11001}.
{ssl_proxy_downstream_port,11002}.
{ssl_proxy_upstream_port,11003}.</codeblock>
    
    <note type="note">If the newly configured ports overlap with ports used by other running
        applications, Couchbase Server fails to start. If the newly configured ports overlap with
        ports used by Couchbase buckets, Erlang crash notifications appear in the log file. </note>
      <note type="note">In order to set up multiple nodes per machine, you need to assign unique
        values to these ports.</note>
      
    </section>
    <section><title>How to Map User-defined Ports to the Default Ports</title> This chart shows how
      certain user-defined ports are mapped to the default ports: <codeblock>{rest_port, 9000}                    8091 Web administration port                                   
{mccouch_port, 8999}                 11213 Default value for mccouch                         
{memcached_port, 12000}              11211 Client interface (proxy)
{memcached_dedicated_port, 11999}    11211 Client interface (proxy)
{moxi_port, 12001}                   11210 Internal/external bucket port
{ssl_rest_port,11000}                18091 Internal REST HTTPS for SSL                                      
{ssl_capi_port,11001}                18092 Internal CAPI HTTPS for SSL
{ssl_proxy_downstream_port,11002}    11214 Incoming SSL proxy
{ssl_proxy_upstream_port,11003}      11215 Internal outgoing SSL proxy</codeblock>
      <note type="important"/> All default ports are reserved and cannot be used for other
      purposes.</section> 
  </body>

</topic>
