<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic4669">
  <title>Installing on Windows</title>
  <shortdesc>Couchbase Server can be installed on machines running Windows operating systems.</shortdesc>
  <body>
   
   <p>Couchbase Server supports the following Windows operating systems.</p>
    <note type="note">Before installing, verify the list of supported operating systems.</note>
    <table>
      <tgroup cols="4">
        <colspec colname="col1"/>
        <colspec colname="col2"/>
        <colspec colname="col3"/>
        <colspec colname="col4"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry><b>Platform</b></entry>
            <entry><b>Version</b></entry>
            <entry><b>32 / 64 bit</b></entry>
            <entry><b>Supported</b></entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>Windows 2012</entry>
            <entry>R2 SP1</entry>
            <entry>64 bit</entry>
            <entry>Developer only</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Windows 2008</entry>
            <entry>R2 with SP1</entry>
            <entry>64 bit</entry>
            <entry>Developer only</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Windows 8</entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry>64 bit</entry>
            <entry>Developer only</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Windows 7</entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry>64 bit</entry>
            <entry>Developer only</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
  
      <p>To install Couchbase Server on Windows, first download the Windows installer package
      supplied as a Windows executable. </p>
    <p>You can install the package either <xref href="windows-install-wizard.dita">using the wizard</xref>, 
      or by performing an <xref href="windows-install-unattended.dita">unattended installation</xref>
      process. </p>
    <p>In either case, make sure that you have no anti-virus software running on the machine before
      you start the installation process. Verify also that you have administrator privileges on the
      machine where you are performing the installation.</p>
    
    
    <p>The TCP/IP port allocation on Windows by default includes a restricted number of ports
      available for client communication. For more information about this issue, including
      information on how to adjust the configuration and increase the number of available ports, see
        <xref href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa560610(v=bts.20).aspx"
        scope="external" format="html"> MSDN: Avoiding TCP/IP Port Exhaustion</xref>
    </p>
    
   
    <note type="important">Couchbase Server uses the Microsoft C++ redistributable package, which
      is automatically downloaded during installation. However, if another application on your machine
      is already using the package, your installation process can fail. To make sure that your
      installation process completes successfully, shut down all other running applications during
      installation. For Windows 2008, you must upgrade your Windows Server 2008 R2 installation
        with Service Pack 1 installed before running Couchbase Server. You can obtain Service Pack 1
        from <xref href="http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ff817647(v=ws.10).aspx" format="html" scope="external">Microsoft TechNet</xref>.</note>
      
    <p>The standard Microsoft Server installation does not provide an adequate number of
        ephemeral ports for Couchbase clusters. Without the correct number of open ephemeral ports,
        you can experience errors during rebalance, timeouts on clients, and failed backups. The
        Couchbase Server installer will check for your current port setting and adjust it if needed.
        See <xref href="http://support.microsoft.com/kb/196271" format="html" scope="external">Microsoft KB-196271</xref>.
        </p>
   
      
  
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
     
  
      <link href="http://support.microsoft.com/kb/196271" scope="external" format="html">
        <linktext>Microsoft Knowledge Base Article 196271</linktext></link>
        <link href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa560610(v=bts.20).aspx" scope="external" format="html">
          <linktext>MSDN: Avoiding TCP/IP Port Exhaustion</linktext>
      </link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
