<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_z3r_zgq_44">
	<title>Node.js SDK 2.0/2.1</title>
	<shortdesc>The Couchbase Node.js SDK allows you to connect to a Couchbase cluster from Node.js. It is a
		native Node.js modules and uses Couchbase's high performance C library to handle
		communicating to the cluster over Couchbase’s binary protocols.</shortdesc>
	<conbody>
	
		<p>Here's a sampling of what you can do with the Couchbase Node.js SDK:</p>
		
		<section>
			<title>Connecting</title>
			<p>To connect to a bucket, just instantiate a new Cluster object to
				represent your cluster, and call the <codeph>openBucket()</codeph> method, passing
				in the name of the bucket that you want to connect to. If no bucket name is
				specified, the default bucket is opened. The following example shows how to connect
				to a bucket on
			localhost:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">var myCluster = new couchbase.Cluster('couchbase://localhost');
var myBucket = myCluster.openBucket('default');</codeblock></section>
		<section>
			<title>Operations</title>
			<p>In most cases, operations are performed by invoking the
				relevant method whilst passing the key, any data and
				meta information that goes with it, along with a
				callback to invoke when the results are available.</p>
			<p>Here is an example of performing a get operations:</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">myBucket.get('document_name', function(err, res) {
  console.log('Value: ', res.value);
});</codeblock>
			<p>Additionally, sometimes more information beyond the key is 
			needed for an operation, as seen here:</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">myBucket.insert('document_name', {some:'value'}, function(err, res) {
  console.log('Success!');
});</codeblock>
		</section>
		<section>
			<title>Performing Queries</title>
			<p>In addition to the basic operations that are available, we additional provide
			methods to perform queries against your data.  These queries allow you to
			ask questions like "What beers start with A?" rather than simply "Give me the
			beer that is called Aaas_Frankl."  This is possible through the use of
			Couchbase's MapReduce views engine.  The following is an example of performing
			a view query.
			</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">var query = ViewQuery.from('beer', 'by_name').skip(6).limit(3);;
myBucket.query(query, function(err, results) {
  for(i in results) {
    console.log('Row:', results[i]);
  }
});</codeblock>
		</section>
		<section>
			<title>Callbacks</title>
			<p>The Node.js Couchbase driver uses a callback pattern to notify the application when results
				are ready. You pass callback functions to the operation methods and the callbacks
				are invoked when the results or errors are ready. All storage, retrieval and query
				operations (both singular and batch methods) follow the same callback pattern, but
				the format of the results differs.</p>
		</section>
	</conbody>


</concept>
