<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_sv3_pyp_fp">
  <title>Backup and Restore</title>
  <shortdesc>In a production environment, as part of an overall Disaster Recovery plan, you must
    plan to back up your entire cluster periodically. This helps ensure that you do not lose
    information in the event of a serious failure and minimizes data inconsistency when a restore is
    required.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    
    <p>Couchbase provides multiple means to facilitate backup and restore: </p>
    <ul>
      <li>Using <cmdname>cbbackupmgr</cmdname> Tool 
        <p>Couchbase Backup Manager is an enterprise-grade backup and restore utility that is available in the Couchbase Server Enterprise Edition only. Designed for the Enterprise Edition, it replaces the <cmdname>cbbackup</cmdname> and <cmdname>cbrestore</cmdname> tools as the primary and recommended means of backup and restore for Enterprise customers from version 4.5 and above. It enables backup and restore of date, indexes, and configurations of clusters at a dramatically increased speed over the previous generation tools. All backups can be performed on a live runnign cluster or node. For more information on cbbackupmgr, see <xref href="enterprise-backup-restore.dita"></xref>.</p></li>
      <li>Using <cmdname>cbbackup</cmdname> and <cmdname>cbrestore</cmdname> Tools 
        <p>The <cmdname>cbbackup</cmdname> and <cmdname>cbrestore</cmdname> tools provide simple yet effective backup and restore capabilities to Couchbase Server.</p> <p>The cbbackup tool enables you to backup a single node, single buckets, or the entire cluster into a flexible backup structure. The cbrestore tool restores data into the same or different clusters and buckets. </p> <p>For more information on these tools, see <xref href="../cli/cbbackup-tool.dita#cbbackup-tool"/> and <xref
          href="../cli/cbrestore-tool.dita#cdbrestore-tool"/>.</p></li>
      <!--<li>Using file copies. A running or offline cluster can be backed up by copying the files on each node. With
        this method, you can only restore to a cluster with the identical configuration.</li>-->
    </ul>
    <note type="note">Due to the active nature of Couchbase Server, it is impossible to create a
      complete in-time backup and snapshot of the entire cluster. Because the data is always being
      updated and modified, it is impossible to take an accurate snapshot.</note>
    
    <note type="note">You must back up and restore your entire cluster to minimize any data
      inconsistencies. Couchbase is always per-item consistent but does not guarantee total cluster
      consistency or in-order persistence.</note>
    
  </body>
</topic>
