<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1393">
  <title>Elasticsearch plug-in</title>
  <body>
    <p>The Couchbase plug-in for Elasticsearch enables you to provide full-text search in your
      application using the open source search engine, Elasticsearch. This means that your users can
      retrieve application documents from Couchbase Server based on text in your documents. For
      instance if you provide a product catalog, users can find items based on text descriptions of
      the products.</p>
    <p>You use Couchbase Server with Elasticsearch to provide quality, rapid full-text search
      results. The data model for Elasticsearch is already very compatible with the schema-free,
      document-oriented model used by Couchbase Server. Since search is often a more CPU-intensive
      process, you can scale your Elasticsearch cluster separately from your Couchbase cluster to
      best meet the demands of your users. In doing so, search functions will not slow the
      performance of Couchbase Server reads or writes.</p>
    
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <link href="http://docs.couchbase.com" scope="external" format="html">
        <linktext>Couchbase Documentation: Couchbase Server Guide, Couchbase Developer Guide, Couchbase SDKs
          and SDK Developer Guides, and other plug-in or connection documentation.</linktext>
      </link>
      <link href="http://www.elasticsearch.org/" scope="external" format="html">
        <linktext>Elasticsearch: The definitive site for downloads, documentation, blogs and
          tutorials on Elasticsearch.</linktext>
      </link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
