<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="document-kv-operations-dotnet">
    <title>CRUD Document Operations using the .NET SDK with Couchbase Server</title>
    <titlealts><navtitle>Document Operations</navtitle></titlealts>
    <conbody>
        <p> You can access documents in Couchbase using methods of the
                <apiname>Couchbase.CouchbaseBucket</apiname> object. The methods for retrieving
            documents are <apiname>Get&lt;T>()</apiname> and
                <apiname>LookupIn&lt;TDocument>()</apiname> and the methods for mutating documents
            are <apiname>Upsert&lt;T>()</apiname>, <apiname>Insert&lt;T>()</apiname>,
                <apiname>Replace&lt;T>()</apiname> and <apiname>MutateIn&lt;TDocument>()</apiname>. </p>
        <p> Examples are shown using the synchronous methods. See the section on <xref
                href="async-programming.dita">Async Programming</xref> for information on other
            methods. </p>
        <section id="net-additional-options">
            <title>Additional options</title>
            <p>Update operations also accept a <xref
                    href="../core-operations.dita#devguide_kvcore_generic/expiry">TTL
                    (expiry)</xref> value (<parmname>Expiry</parmname>) on the passed
                    <parmname>IDocument</parmname> which will instruct the server to delete the
                document after a given amount of time. This option is useful for transient data
                (such as sessions). By default documents do not expire. See <xref
                    href="../core-operations.dita#devguide_kvcore_generic/expiry"/> for more
                information on expiration. </p>
            <p>Update operations can also accept a <xref href="../concurrent-mutations-cluster.dita"
                    >CAS</xref> (<parmname>Cas</parmname>) value on the passed document to protect
                against concurrent updates to the same document. See <xref
                    href="../concurrent-mutations-cluster.dita">CAS</xref> for a description on how
                to use CAS values in your application. Since CAS values are opaque, they are
                normally retreived when a Document is loaded from Couchbase and then used
                subsequently (without modification) on the mutation operations. If a mutation did
                succeed, the returned Document will contain the new CAS value. </p>
        </section>
        <section id="net-mutation-input">
            <title>Document input and output types</title>
            <p>Couchbase stores documents. From an SDK point of view, those documents contain the
                actual value (like a JSON object) and associated metadata. Every document in the
                Java SDK contains the following properties, some of them optional depending on the
                context: </p>
            <table>
                <tgroup cols="2">
                    <thead>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Name</entry>
                            <entry>Description</entry>
                        </row>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                        <row>
                            <entry>
                                <codeph>Id</codeph>
                            </entry>
                            <entry>The (per bucket) unique identifier of the document.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>
                                <codeph>Content</codeph>
                            </entry>
                            <entry>The actual content of the document.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>
                                <codeph>Cas</codeph>
                            </entry>
                            <entry>The CAS (Compare And Swap) value of the document.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>
                                <codeph>Expiry</codeph>
                            </entry>
                            <entry>The expiration time of the document.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>
                                <codeph>Token</codeph>
                            </entry>
                            <entry>The optional MutationToken after a mutation.</entry>
                        </row>
                    </tbody>
                </tgroup>
            </table>
            <p> There are a few different results using <codeph>IDocument</codeph> you may
                encounter: <ul>
                    <li><apiname>Document</apiname>: The default one in most methods and is backed
                        by a JSON document when stored to Couchbase. Commonly this is a
                            <apiname>Document&lt;dynamic></apiname> object, which the API will
                        handle automatically on behalf of your program.</li>
                    <li><apiname>DocumentResult</apiname>: The return type for any
                            <apiname>IDocument</apiname> centric operation requests.</li>
                    <li><apiname>OperationResult&lt;T></apiname>: The return type for any binary
                        operations that return a value.</li>
                </ul></p>
            <p>Because Couchbase Server can store anything and not just JSON, there is the
                possibility for other implementations of the <apiname>IDocument</apiname> interface
                or the <apiname>IOperationResult</apiname> interface. These are usually returned by
                other methods on the <apiname>Bucket</apiname> or are implemented using an
                    <apiname>ITypeTranscoder</apiname>, which is outside the scope of this
                inroduction.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="net-creating-updating-full-docs">
            <title>Creating and updating full documents</title>
            <p> Documents may be created and updated using the
                    <apiname>IBucket.Upsert&lt;T>()</apiname>,
                    <apiname>IBucket.Insert&lt;T>()</apiname>, and
                    <apiname>IBucket.Replace&lt;T>()</apiname> family of methods. Read more about
                the difference between these methods at <xref
                    href="../core-operations.dita#devguide_kvcore_generic/crud-overview"/> in the
                Couchbase developer guide. </p>
            <p> These methods accept an IDocument instance where the following properties are
                considered if set: <ul>
                    <li><parmname>Id</parmname> (mandatory): The ID of the document to modify
                        (String).</li>
                    <li><parmname>Content</parmname> (mandatory): The desired new content of the
                        document, this varies per document type used. This Type of the content is
                        specified by the generic Type T parameter.</li>
                    <li><parmname>Expiry</parmname> (optional): Specify the expiry time for the
                        document. If specified, the document will expire and no longer exist after
                        the given number of seconds. See <xref href="../core-operations.dita#expiry"
                        /> for more information.</li>
                    <li><parmname>Cas</parmname> (optional): The CAS value for the document. If the
                        CAS on the server does not match the CAS supplied to the method, the
                        operation will fail. See <xref href="../concurrent-mutations-cluster.dita"/>
                        for more information on the usage of CAS values. Note that the Cas is
                        represented here as a <apiname>UInt64</apiname>, but you should consider it
                        an opaque value in your programs.</li>
                </ul></p>
            <p> Other optional arguments are also available for more advanced usage: <ul>
                    <li><parmname>TimeSpan</parmname>: A value for the <apiname>Expiry</apiname> on
                        this document.</li>
                    <li><parmname>PersistTo</parmname>, <parmname>ReplicateTo</parmname>: Specify
                            <xref href="../durability.dita#concept_gyg_14s_zs"> durability
                            requirements</xref> for the operations.</li>
                </ul></p>
            <p> Upon success, the returned <apiname>IDocumentResult</apiname> instance will contain
                the new <xref href="../concurrent-mutations-cluster.dita#concept_iq4_bts_zs"
                    >CAS</xref> value of the document. If the document is not mutated successfully,
                an exception is raised depending on the type of error. Further details on the
                exceptional case may be on the <parmname>Exception</parmname> property of the
                returned <parmname>IDocumentResult</parmname>.</p>
            <p>Inserting a document works like this:</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-net"><![CDATA[var doc = new Document<dynamic>{ Id = "document_id", Content = new {Some="value"} };
var result = bucket.Insert(doc);]]>
Console.WriteLine(JsonConvert.SerializeObject(result.Document));</codeblock>
            <screen>Output: {"Id":"document_id","Cas":1466044876366741504,"Expiry":0,"Content":null,"Token":null}</screen>
            <p> If the same code is called again, a <codeph>ResponseStatus.KeyExists</codeph> will
                be returned. If you don't care that the document is overridden, you can use
                    <apiname>Upsert</apiname> instead: </p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp"><![CDATA[var doc = new Document<dynamic>{ Id = "document_id", Content = new {Some="other value"} };
var result = bucket.Upsert(doc);]]><![CDATA[
Console.WriteLine(JsonConvert.SerializeObject(result.Document));]]></codeblock>
            <screen>Output: {"Id":"document_id","Cas":1466044876366741599,"Expiry":0,"Content":null,"Token":null}</screen>
            <p> Finally, a full document can be replaced if it existed before. If it didn't exist,
                then a <codeph>ResponseStatus.KeyExists</codeph> will be returned: </p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp"><![CDATA[var doc = new Document<dynamic>{ Id = "document_id", Content = new {Some="other value"} };
var result = bucket.Replace(doc);]]>
Console.WriteLine(result.Status);</codeblock>
            <screen>Output: KeyExists</screen>
        </section>
        <section id="net-retrieving-full-docs">
            <title>Retrieving full documents</title>
            <p> Documents may be retrieved using the <apiname>IBucket.Get()</apiname>,
                    <apiname>IBucket.GetWithLock()</apiname>,
                    <apiname>IBucket.GetAndTouch()</apiname> and
                    <apiname>IBucket.GetFromReplica()</apiname>methods. All of those serve different
                distinct purposes and accept different parameters. </p>
            <p> Most of the time you use the <apiname>get()</apiname> method. It accepts one
                mandatory argument: </p>
            <ul>
                <li><parmname>id</parmname>: The document ID to retrieve</li>
            </ul>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp"><![CDATA[Console.WriteLine(bucket.GetDocument<dynamic>("document_id").Content);]]></codeblock>
            <screen>Output: { "some": "value" }</screen>
            <p> It is also possible to read from a replica if you want to explicitly trade
                availability for consistency during the timeframe when the active partition is not
                reachable (for example during a node failure or netsplit). </p>
            <p><codeph>GetFromReplica</codeph> has one mandatory argument as well:</p>
            <ul>
                <li><parmname>id</parmname>: The document ID to retrieve</li>
            </ul>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp"><![CDATA[var result = bucket.getFromReplica("document_id");
Console.WriteLine(result.Status);]]></codeblock>
            <note type="important"> Since a replica is updated asynchronously and eventually
                consistent, reading from it may return stale and/or outdated results! </note>
            <p> If you need to use pessimistic write locking on a document you can use the
                    <parmname>GetWithLock</parmname> which will retreive the document if it exists
                and also return its <parmname>CAS</parmname> value. You need to provide a time that
                the document is maximum locked (and the server will unlock it then) if you don't
                update it with the valid cas. Also note that this is a pure write lock, reading is
                still allowed. </p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp"><![CDATA[// Get and Lock for max of 10 seconds
var ownedDoc = bucket.GetWithLock<dynamic>("document_id", new TimeSpan(0, 0, 10));

// Do something with your document
var modifiedDoc = ModfiyDocument(ownedDoc.Document);

// Write it back with the correct CAS
bucket.Replace(modifiedDoc);]]></codeblock>
            <p> It is also possible to fetch the document and reset its expiration value at the same
                time. See <xref href="document-operations.dita#net-modifying-expiration"> Modifying
                    Expiration</xref> for more information. </p>
        </section>
        <section id="net-removing-full-docs">
            <title>Removing full documents</title>
            <p> Documents may be removed using the <apiname>IBucket.Remove()</apiname> method. This
                method takes a single mandatory argument: </p>
            <ul>
                <li><parmname>id</parmname>: The ID of the document to remove.</li>
            </ul>
            <p>Some additional options:</p>
            <ul>
                <li><parmname>PersistTo</parmname>, <parmname>ReplicateTo</parmname>: Specify <xref
                        href="../durability.dita#concept_gyg_14s_zs">durability requirements</xref>
                    for the operations.</li>
                <li><parmname>Timeout</parmname>: Specify a custom timeout which overrides the
                    default timeout setting.</li>
            </ul>
            <p> If the <codeph>cas</codeph> value is set on the Document overload, it is used to
                provide optimistic currency, very much like the <codeph>Replace</codeph> operation. </p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp"><![CDATA[// Remove the document
var result = bucket.Remove("document_id");]]></codeblock>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp"><![CDATA[var loaded = bucket.GetDocument<dynamic>("document_id");

// Remove and take the CAS into account
var removed = bucket.Remove(loaded);]]></codeblock>
        </section>
        <section id="net-modifying-expiration">
            <title>Modifying expiraton</title>
            <p> Modifying the <xref href="../core-operations.dita#devguide_kvcore_generic/expiry"
                    >Document expiration</xref> can be performed using the
                    <apiname>IBucket.Touch()</apiname> method. In addition, many methods support
                setting the expiry value as part of their other primary operations: </p>
            <ul>
                <li><apiname>IBucket.Touch</apiname>: Resets the expiry time for the given document
                    ID to the value provided.</li>
                <li><apiname>IBucket.GetAndTouchDocument</apiname>: Fetches the document and resets
                    the expiry to the given value provided.</li>
                <li><apiname>IBucket.Insert</apiname>, <apiname>IBucket.Upsert</apiname>,
                        <apiname>IBucket.Replace</apiname>: Stores the expiry value alongside the
                    actual mutation when set on the <codeph>Document&lt;T></codeph> instance.</li>
            </ul>
            <p> The following example stores a document with an expiry, waits a bit longer and as a
                result no document is found on the subsequent get: </p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp"><![CDATA[uint expiry = 2000; // milliseconds
var stored = bucket.Upsert(new Document<dynamic>
{
    Id = "expires",
    Expiry = expiry,
    Content = new {Some = "value"}
});

Thread.Sleep(3000);

//will be expired, thus KeyNotFound
Console.WriteLine(bucket.GetDocument<dynamic>("expires").Status);]]></codeblock>
            <screen>KeyNotFound</screen>
        </section>
        <section id="net-atomic-modifications"><title>Atomic document
            modifications</title>Additional atomic document modifications can be performing using
            the .NET SDK. You can increase or decrease the value of a document using the
                <apiname>IBucket.Increment</apiname> or  <apiname>IBucket.Decrement</apiname>
            methods. You can also use the <apiname>IBucket.Append()</apiname> and
                <apiname>Bucket.Prepend()</apiname> methods to perform <xref
                href="../core-operations.dita#devguide_kvcore_generic/devguide_kvcore_append_prepend_generic"
                >raw byte concatenation</xref>. </section>
        <section id="net-batching-ops">
            <title>Batching Operations</title>
            <p>The .NET SDK supports the async/await keywords so batching can easily be done by
                utilizing the Task.WhenAll method:<codeblock><![CDATA[var tasks = new List<Task>IDocumentResult<string>>>();
ids.ForEach(x => tasks.Add(bucket.GetDocumentAsync<string>(x)));

var results = await Task.WhenAll(tasks);
results.ToList().ForEach(doc => Console.WriteLine(doc.Status));]]></codeblock></p>
            <p>In addition, there are overloads of the standard CRUD methonds on IBucket which take
                a list or dictionary of keys and/or documents and internally batch them asynchronously:<codeblock><![CDATA[var keys = new []{"key1", "key2", "key3"};
var results = bucket.Get<dynamic>(keys).Values;]]>
results.ToList().ForEach(x=>Console.WriteLine(x.Value));</codeblock></p>
            <p>The main difference between the two is that the second way will block while the
                results are returned (even if they are retrieved in parrallel), and the first is
                non-blocking from the calling thread.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="net-subdocs">
            <title>Operating with sub-documents</title>
            <note type="tip">See <xref href="../subdocument-operations.dita#subdoc-operations"/> for
                an overview</note>
            <hazardstatement>
                <messagepanel id="messagepanel_edy_qwm_qv">
                    <typeofhazard>Sub-Document API is experimental</typeofhazard>
                    <howtoavoid>Sub-Document is a feature to be released in Couchbase 4.5. It is
                        available as an experimental feature in 4.5 pre-release builds.</howtoavoid>
                </messagepanel>
            </hazardstatement>
            <p> Sub-document operations save network bandwidth by allowing you to specify
                    <i>paths</i> of a document to be retrieved or updated. The document is parsed on
                the server and only the relevant sections (indicated by <i>paths</i>) are
                transferred between client and server. You can execute <xref
                    href="../subdocument-operations.dita#subdoc-operations">sub-document</xref>
                operations in the .NET SDK using the <apiname>IBucket.LookupIn()</apiname> and
                    <apiname>IBucket.MutateIn()</apiname> methods. </p>
            <p> Each of these methods accepts a <parmname>key</parmname> as its mandatory first
                argument and give you a builder that you can use to chain several <i>command
                    specifications</i>, each specifying the path to be impacted by the specified
                operation and a document field operand. You may find all the operations in the
                    <apiname>LookupInBuilder</apiname> and <apiname>MutateInBuilder</apiname>
                classes. </p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp"><![CDATA[bucket.LookupIn("docid")
    .Get("path.to.get")
    .Exists("check.path.exists")
    .Execute();

boolean createParents = true;
bucket.MutateIn("docid")
    .Upsert("path.to.upsert", value, createParents)
    .Remove("path.to.del"))
    .Execute();]]></codeblock>
            <p> All sub-document operations return a special
                    <apiname>IDocumentFragment&lt;T></apiname> object rather than a
                    <apiname>IDocument&lt;T></apiname>. It shares the <codeph>Id</codeph>,
                    <codeph>Cas</codeph> and <codeph>MutationToken</codeph> fields of a document,
                but in contrast with a normal <apiname>IDocument&lt;T></apiname> object, a
                    <apiname>IDocumentFragment&lt;T></apiname> object contains multiple results with
                multiple statuses, one result/status pair for every input operation. So it exposes
                method to get the <codeph>Content()</codeph> and <codeph>Status()</codeph> of each
                spec, either by index or by path. It also allows to check that a response for a
                particular spec <codeph>Exists()</codeph>: </p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp"><![CDATA[var res =
bucket.LookupIn("docid")
    .Get("foo")
    .Exists("bar")
    .Exists("baz")
    .Execute();
// First result
res.Content("foo");
// or
res.Content(0);]]></codeblock>
            <p> Using the <codeph>Content(...)</codeph> methods will raise an exception if the
                individual spec did not complete successfully. You can also use the
                    <codeph>Status(...)</codeph> methods to return an error code (a
                    <apiname>ResponseStatus</apiname>) rather than throw an exception. </p>
        </section>
        <section id="net-formats-non-json">
            <title>Formats and Non-JSON Documents</title>
            <note type="tip">See <xref href="../nonjson.dita#devguide_nonjson"/> for a general
                overview of using non-JSON documents with Couchbase</note>
            <p>The .NET SDK supports documents in the form of POCOs (plain old csharp objects) as
                long as they are serializable (public getter/setter properties), dynamic types, and
                most of the representations of JSON objects from the 3rd party API's such as
                NewtonSoft.JSON. In general, if the Type you are storing is an object capable of
                being serialized, it will be stored natively as JSON in couchbase. Exceptions
                include non-JSON strings, byte arrays, and any value that is not representable as
                JSON. If the value is not serializable to JSON, then it will be treated as a binary
                document. Note that binary documents cannot be queried using N1QL nor do the
                Sub-Document methods work on them.</p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
