<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dotnet-fts">
  <title>Full Text Search (FTS) Using the .NET SDK with Couchbase Server</title>
  <titlealts><navtitle>Searching from the SDK</navtitle></titlealts>
  <shortdesc>You can use the Full Text Search service (FTS) to create queryable full-text indexes in Couchbase Server.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>Full Text Search or FTS allows you to create, manage and query full text indexes on JSON
      documents stored in Couchbase buckets. It uses natural language processing for querying
      documents, provides relevence scoring on the results of your queries and has fast indexes for
      querying a wide range of possible text searches. Some of the supported query-types include
      simple queries like Match and Term queries, range queries like Date Range and Numeric Range
      and compound queries for conjunctions, disjunctions and/or boolean queries. The .NET SDK
      exposes an API for performing FTS queries which abstracts some of the complexity of using the
      underlying REST API. </p>
    <note conref="../shared/experimental-pars.dita#experimental/fts"/>
    <p>Querying a FTS index using the .NET SDK is performed through the <codeph>Query(SearchQuery
        query)</codeph> method on the <apiname>CouchbaseBucket</apiname> class. This method returns
      a <apiname>ISearchQueryResult</apiname> that when enumerated yields the results of the query
      (in the form of <apiname>ISearchQueryRow</apiname> objects). Additionally, you can access the
      rows via the <apiname>Hits</apiname> property, which returns list containing all rows
      returned. Other important ISearchQueryResult properties include:<ul id="ul_d3v_4qr_dw">
        <li>Status: a <apiname>SearchStatus</apiname> value indicating the result of the query -
          Success or Failed.</li>
        <li>Errors: a list of any errors that may have occurred</li>
        <li>Facets: a list of <apiname>SearchFacet</apiname> objects if any were returned</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p> The <apiname>ISearchQueryRow</apiname> interface is implemented as a SearchQueryRow object
      and contains the <codeph>Index</codeph>, <codeph>Id</codeph> and <codeph>Score</codeph>
      properties, respectively identifying the exact FTS index that returned the hit, the id of the
      document that matched and a score for the match. It also contains optional properties
      depending on the request and the availability of all relevant settings in the FTS mapping.
      Those are:<ul id="ul_mzh_r5r_dw">
        <li><codeph>Explanation</codeph>: an explanation of the plan followed by the FTS index to
          execute the query as a dynamic Type.</li>
        <li><codeph>Locations</codeph>: a map-like listing of the location of all matching terms
          inside each relevant field that was queried as a dynamic Type.</li>
        <li><codeph>Fragments</codeph>: a map-like listing of occurrences of the search terms in
          each field, with the context of the terms.</li>
        <li><codeph>Fields</codeph>: a map of the complete value of each requested field). Most of
          these need that the index be configured to store the data of a searched field</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p> Here is an example of a very simple example using a <apiname>MatchQuery</apiname>, which is a very generic Full
      Text Search that will search within the text of the fields that were indexed: </p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp" spectitle="Querying and FTS index">
  ClusterHelper.Initialize(new ClientConfiguration());
  var bucket = ClusterHelper.GetBucket("travel-sample");
  var results = bucket.Query(new SearchQuery
  {
      Index = "idx_travel_content",
      Query = new MatchQuery("inn"),
      SearchParams = new SearchParams().Limit(10).Timeout(TimeSpan.FromMilliseconds(10000))
  });

  foreach (var result in results)
  {
      Console.WriteLine(result);
  }</codeblock>
    <p> First we open a <apiname>CouchbaseBucket</apiname>, in this case we are opening the
        <i>"travel-sample"</i> bucket which comes is a sample bucket and dataset that comes
      pre-installed with Couchbase server (but must be configured via the Management Console). In
      the bucket, using the Management Console, we have created an index named
        <i>"idx_travel_content"</i> which will index on the<i> "content" </i>field of the
        <i>"landmark"</i> document type.</p>
    <p>We then create a high-level <apiname>SearchQuery</apiname> object with our parameters to
      apply to the entire request. A <apiname>SearchQuery</apiname> can be composed of one or more
      queries, thus the parameters on the <apiname>SearchQuery</apiname> apply to all queries within
      that instance. Here are some of the more important parameters:<ul id="ul_ypk_x2y_dw">
        <li><apiname>Limit</apiname>: limits the number of matching results from a returned
          result-set by <i>"n"</i>.</li>
        <li><apiname>Skip</apiname>: indicates how many matching results to skip on the result set
          before returning matches.</li>
        <li><apiname>Explain</apiname>: if true, the response will include additional search score
          explanations.</li>
        <li><apiname>Highlighting</apiname>: allows setting of additional highlighting on the result
          set of matching terms.</li>
        <li><apiname>Fields</apiname>: a list of fields values that should be returned in the result
          assuming that they were indexed.</li>
        <li><apiname>Facets</apiname>: a list of facets used to aggregate information collected on a
          particluar result set.</li>
        <li><apiname>Timeout</apiname>: a server side timeout allows to specify an upper boundary of
          request execution so that it potentially doesn't run infinitely.</li>
      </ul>The <apiname>SearchQuery</apiname> is a "fluent" interface, so you can chain method calls
      togather making it a bit easier to see which options you have available using IntelliSense in
      Visual Studio. The index we defined above <i>"idx_travel_content"</i> is assigned to the Index
      property and the MatchQuery is defined, which will search for the letters <i>"inn"</i> in the
        <i>"content"</i> field of every <i>"landmark"</i> document in the <i>"travel-sample"</i>
      bucket.</p>
    <p>We then call the <apiname>CouchbaseBucket.Query(SearchQuery query)</apiname> method and
      iterate over the <apiname>ISearchQueryResult</apiname> object which will gives the results of
      the query.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
