<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept2677">
  <title>Managing Connections Using the .NET SDK with Couchbase Server</title>
  <titlealts><navtitle>Managing Connections</navtitle></titlealts>
  <shortdesc>This section describes how to connect the .NET SDK to a Couchbase cluster and bucket. It contains best
      practices as well as information on the connection string,  SSL and other advanced connection options.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <section>
      <title>Connecting to a Cluster and Opening a Bucket</title>
      <p>Connecting to a bucket is a two-step process: first, a <b><codeph>Cluster</codeph></b>
        object needs to be created or the <b><apiname>ClusterHelper</apiname></b> object needs to be
        initialized, followed by one or more calls to <apiname>OpenBucket()</apiname> or
          <apiname>GetBucket(..)</apiname>:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp"><![CDATA[var cluster = Cluster();
var bucket = cluster.OpenBucket("default");

//or alternately
ClusterHelper.Initialize();
var bucket = ClusterHelper.GetBucket("default);]]></codeblock>
      <p><note>The <apiname>ClusterHelper</apiname> is a singleton/multiton that makes it easier to manage resources
          and instances in server runtime environments such as ASP.NET and Owin/Katana. A
        <apiname>ClusterHelper</apiname> will make a singleton instance of a <apiname>Cluster</apiname> object and configuration and
        store references to opened <apiname>IBucket</apiname> objects that can be reused throughout the lifespan of
          an application.</note>If no further arguments are applied, this code connects to
          <codeph>localhost</codeph> and opens the <i>default</i> bucket. While this is suitable for
        development, you most probably want to connect to a remote cluster and also a different
        bucket (with a password), to do this you create a <apiname>ClientConfiguration</apiname>
        object can be constructed with a custom configuration:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp"><![CDATA[//define a configuration object
var config = new ClientConfiguration {
   Servers = new List<Uri> {
       new Uri("http://192.168.56.101:8091"),
       new Uri("http://192.168.56.102:8091")
   }
};

//create the cluster and open the new bucket
var cluster = new Cluster(config);
var bucket = cluster.OpenBucket("mybucket", "mybucketpassword");

//or alternately
ClusterHelper.Initialize(config);
var bucket = ClusterHelper.GetBucket("mybucket", "mybucketpassword");]]></codeblock>
      <p>The ClientConfiguration object also exposes per bucket configuration settings, for
        example:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp"> <![CDATA[var config = new ClientConfiguration{
    Servers = new List<Uri> {
        new Uri("http://192.168.56.101:8091"),
        new Uri("http://192.168.56.102:8091")
    },
    BucketConfigs = new Dictionary<string, BucketConfiguration> {{
            "mybucket", new BucketConfiguration{
                BucketName = "mybucket",
                Password = "mybucketpassword"
            }
        }
     }
  };

//create the cluster and open the new bucket
var cluster = new Cluster(config);
var bucket = cluster.OpenBucket("mybucket");

//or alternately
ClusterHelper.Initialize(config);
var bucket = ClusterHelper.GetBucket("mybucket");]]></codeblock>
      <p>It is very important in a production setup to pass in at least two or three nodes of the
        cluster because if the first one in the list fails the other ones can be tried. After
        initial contact is made, the bootstrap list provided by the user is thrown away and replaced
        with a list provided by the server (which contains all nodes of the cluster).</p>
      <p>As an alternative to programmatic configuration, the SDK also supports configuration via
        config file and soon will support JSON config files. Here is an example of an App.Config
        that is equivalent to the configuration above:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<configuration>
  <configSections>
    <sectionGroup name="couchbaseClients">
      <section name="couchbase" type="Couchbase.Configuration.Client.Providers.CouchbaseClientSection, Couchbase.NetClient" />
    </sectionGroup>
  </configSections>
  <couchbaseClients>
    <couchbase>
      <servers>
        <add uri="http://192.168.56.101:8091"></add>
        <add uri="http://192.168.56.102:8091"></add>
      </servers>
      <buckets>
        <add name="mybucket" password="mybucketpassword"></add>
      </buckets>
    </couchbase>
  </couchbaseClients>
</configuration>]]></codeblock> To open these buckets you would pass the path to the configuration
        section: <codeblock outputclass="language-xml"><![CDATA[var cluster = new Cluster("couchbaseClients/couchbase");
var bucket = cluster.OpenBucket("mybucket");]]>

//or alternatively
ClusterHelper.Initialize("couchbaseClients/couchbase");
<![CDATA[var bucket = cluster.OpenBucket("mybucket");]]></codeblock></p>
      <p>More buckets can be open at the same time if needed:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp"><![CDATA[var bucket1 = cluster.OpenBucket("bucket1", "password");
var bucket2 = cluster.OpenBucket("bucket2", "password");]]></codeblock>
      <p>If more than one bucket is open at a time, the underlying internals of the client makes
        sure to utilize the resources as best as possible, that is sharing sockets, thread pools and
        so on.</p>
      <p>Here are some very important things to keep in mind:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Always create only one instance of a <codeph>Cluster</codeph> and share it across
          threads (same with buckets) or use the <apiname>ClusterHelper</apiname> to help you do this. The
          <apiname>ClusterHelper</apiname> is a singleton for a <apiname>Cluster</apiname> instance and a "multi-ton" for bucket
          instances; the buckets will be cached and reused. </li>
        <li>The SDK is thread-safe, so no additional synchronization is needed when interacting with
          the SDK.</li>
        <li>If different clusters need to be accessed, you can do this with multiple <apiname>Cluster</apiname>
          instances.</li>
        <li>The <apiname>Cluster</apiname> instance and the <apiname>ClusterHelper</apiname> class should be initialized when the
          application starts up and closed via <apiname>Dispose()</apiname> when the application shuts down.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section><title>Disconnecting from a Bucket</title><p>The most common case is to Dispose the
        whole <codeph>Cluster</codeph> from the server, which has the same effect as closing all
        buckets manually and in addition close all underlying resources like threads and sockets.
        This also means that once <apiname>Dispose()</apiname> has been called, you can't reopen buckets from the same
          <codeph>Cluster</codeph>
      instance.</p><codeblock outputclass="language-csharp"><![CDATA[cluster.Dispose();]]></codeblock>After
      a Dispose() called on a Cluster instance any subsequent attempts to open or use a bucket or
      cluster will cause a ObjectDisposedException to be thrown. You can also Dispose of a bucket
        instance:<codeblock outputclass="language-csharp"><![CDATA[bucket.Dispose();]]></codeblock><p>This
        will release only the resources allocated for this bucket and it is possible to reopen it at
        a later point.</p><p>If you do not Dispose of the Cluster or bucket instance that you are
        using in your application, eventually the AppDomain or process will destroy the objects
        however, any underlying resources (sockets for example) will be closed by the OS whenever it
        decides to do so. This can lead to other problems so always Dispose of your Cluster and
        bucket objects before the hosting application shuts down.</p></section>
    <section id="ssl"><title>Connecting with SSL</title><p>Couchbase Server EE 3.0 and later
        supports full encryption of client-side traffic. That includes key-value type operations,
        queries, and configuration communication. Make sure to have a proper Couchbase Server
        version installed before proceeding with configuring encryption on the client side.</p><p>To
        configure encryption for the .NET SDK:</p><ol>
        <li>Copy and import the certificate from the cluster into your certificate store</li>
        <li>Enable encryption on the client by setting ClientConfiguration.UseSsl to true</li>
      </ol>Depending upon your version of Windows and whether or not you are using OWIN or IIS, how
      you import into your certificate store may vary. <p>If you are running on
          <codeph>localhost</codeph> and just want to enable it for a development machine, just
        copying and pasting it suffices. Navigate in the admin UI to <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Cluster</uicontrol>
        </menucascade> and copy the input box of the SSL certificate into a file on your machine
        (here named cluster.crt). It looks similar to this:</p><codeblock><![CDATA[-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
MIICmDCCAYKgAwIBAgIIE4FSjsc3nyIwCwYJKoZIhvcNAQEFMAwxCjAIBgNVBAMT
ASowHhcNMTMwMTAxMDAwMDAwWhcNNDkxMjMxMjM1OTU5WjAMMQowCAYDVQQDEwEq
MIIBIjANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQEFAAOCAQ8AMIIBCgKCAQEAzz2I3Gi1XcOCNRVYwY5R
................................................................
mgDnQI8nw2arBRoseLpF6WNw22CawxHVOlMceQaGOW9gqKNBN948EvJJ55Dhl7qG
BQp8sR0J6BsSc86jItQtK9eQWRg62+/XsgVCmDjrB5owHPz+vZPYhsMWixVhLjPJ
mkzeUUj/kschgQ0BWT+N+pyKAFFafjwFYtD0e5NwFUUBfsOyQtYV9xu3fw+T2N8S
itfGtmmlEfaplVGzGPaG0Eyr53g5g2BgQbi5l5Tt2awqhd22WOVbCalABd9t2IoI
F4+FjEqAEIr1mQepDaNM0gEfVcgd2SzGhC3yhYFBAH//8W4DUot5ciEhoBs=
-----END CERTIFICATE-----]]></codeblock><p>Paste this into notepad running with administrative
        privileges and then save it to disk with a file extension of <b>.crt </b>and a file type of
          <i>"All Files"</i>. Then right click on the file and select <i>"Import Certificate"</i>,
        then select <i>"Local Machine"</i>, select the "<i>Trusted Root Certificate Authorities"</i>
        and finally <i>"Finish".</i>  Once you have done this, all traffic between the client and
        the server will be encrypted.</p></section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
