<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="csharp-sample-app-backend">
  <title>.NET Sample App backend tutorial</title>
  <titlealts><navtitle>Sample App backend in .NET</navtitle></titlealts>
  <shortdesc>The .NET SDK tutorial bridges the gap between simple and advanced concepts by walking
        through a complete web application.</shortdesc>
    <body>

        <section>
            <p>The full source code for the tutorial is available <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-dotnet/" scope="external"
                    format="html"> on GitHub couchbaselabs/try-cb-dotnet</xref>. The primary focus of
                the tutorial is to explain the function and theory behind the Couchbase .NET client
                and how it works together with Couchbase Server, and especially new features in
                versions 4.0/4.5 like <codeph>N1QL</codeph>, <codeph>FTS</codeph> and
                    <codeph>sub-document</codeph>. It makes use of the
                    <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> data set. The code that generates the web
                application is provided with the source code, but is not discussed in this tutorial. </p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Specific .NET prerequisites and set up</title>
            <p> In addition to the prerequisites mentioned in <xref
                    href="../sample-application.dita"/>, you'll need: <ul>
                    <li>Visual Studio 2015 (Community is fine)</li>
                </ul></p>
            <p> To get set up for the tutorial proper, follow these steps: <ul>
                    <li><codeph>git clone
                            https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-dotnet.git</codeph> or <xref
                            href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-dotnet/releases/tag/v2.0.0"
                            format="zip" scope="external">download the source</xref>
                    </li>
                    <li>if you don't want to connect to <codeph>localhost</codeph>, change the
                        couchbaseServer entry in <xref
                            href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-dotnet/blob/master/src/try-cb-dotnet/Web.config"
                            format="html" scope="external"
                                ><codeph>src/try-cb-dotnet/Web.config</codeph></xref></li>
                    <li>open the project in Visual Studio and build the project, nuget references
                        will be restored automatically</li>
                </ul></p>
            <note type="note"> If you want to code it yourself, the real work is done in the
                following classes: <ul>
                    <li><xref
                            href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-dotnet/blob/master/src/try-cb-dotnet/Controllers/AirportController.cs"
                            format="html" scope="external"
                                ><codeph>src/try-cb-dotnet/Controllers/AirportController.cs</codeph></xref></li>
                    <li><xref
                            href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-dotnet/blob/master/src/try-cb-dotnet/Controllers/FlightPathsController.cs"
                            format="html" scope="external"
                                ><codeph>src/try-cb-dotnet/Controllers/FlightPathsController.cs</codeph></xref></li>
                    <li><xref
                            href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-dotnet/blob/master/src/try-cb-dotnet/Controllers/HotelController.cs"
                            format="html" scope="external"
                                ><codeph>src/try-cb-dotnet/Controllers/HotelController.cs</codeph></xref></li>
                    <li><xref
                            href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-dotnet/blob/master/src/try-cb-dotnet/Controllers/UserController.cs"
                            format="html" scope="external"
                                ><codeph>src/try-cb-dotnet/Controllers/UserController.cs</codeph></xref></li>
                    <li><xref
                            href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-dotnet/blob/master/src/try-cb-dotnet/App_Start/CouchbaseConfig.cs"
                            format="html" scope="external"
                                ><codeph>src/try-cb-dotnet/App_Start/CouchbaseConfig.cs</codeph></xref></li>
                </ul><p>There's currently no "fill-in-the-blanks" branch so you'll have to delete
                    method bodies and try to take it from there.</p></note>

            <note type="tip"> This tutorial focuses on querying through N1QL and FTS rather than
                mapreduce views. If you want information about using views, see the following
                resources: <ul>
                    <li>General Information about views: <xref
                            href="../../architecture/incremental-map-reduce-views.dita"/>
                    </li>
                    <li>Querying views:<xref
                            href="../../indexes/querying-using-map-reduce-views.dita"/></li>
                </ul></note>
        </section>
       <section>
            <title>Walking Through the API</title>
            <p>The following sections lead you through the primary functions of the sample application. All of the REST API application code is
        in several files according to function.  The following shows you how to program with the various features and services of Couchbase including: <b>connecting</b> to a cluster and bucket, <b>key/value</b> iteraction, document <b>query through N1QL</b> and <b>full text searches</b>.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_l54_sj3_yy"><title>Configure and Bootstrap the
                    SDK</title><p><b>Where:</b>
                <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-dotnet/blob/master/src/try-cb-dotnet/App_Start/CouchbaseConfig.cs"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                        ><codeph>src/try-cb-dotnet/App_Start/CouchbaseConfig.cs</codeph></xref></p><p><b>Goals:</b>
                Connecting to the <codeph>Cluster</codeph> and getting familiar with
                    <codeph>ClusterHelper</codeph>.</p><p><b>Relevant Documentation Topics:</b>
                <xref href="managing-connections.dita" format="dita">Managing
                Connections</xref></p><p>The first step in the Couchbase SDK is to configure your
                connection to the cluster. This can be done either programattically or through
                configuration files. For simplicity, in this sample app we're going to do it
                programmatically.</p><p>In the sample app, the
                    <codeph>CouchbaseConfig.Register()</codeph> method is responsible for reading
                the hostnames and/or IP addresses for the cluster and initializing the connection.
                First it reads the <codeph>CouchbaseServer</codeph> setting from the
                    <codeph>web.config</codeph> and then creates a
                    <codeph>ClientConfiguration</codeph>, setting the Servers with the hostname from
                the app setting. The <codeph>ClientConfiguration</codeph> is then passed into the
                    <codeph>ClusterHelper</codeph> utility which uses the configuration to setup
                everything required.</p><p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">var couchbaseServer = ConfigurationManager.AppSettings.Get("CouchbaseServer");
ClusterHelper.Initialize(new ClientConfiguration
{
    Servers = new List { new Uri(couchbaseServer) }
});</codeblock>
            </p>The <codeph>ClusterHelper</codeph> is a utility built into the .NET SDK to help with
            managing the cluster connection and can be used to get references to a
                <codeph>bucket</codeph> (which is your entry point for the whole storage API). The
                <codeph>cluster</codeph> connection should be reused as much as possible, typically
            called a singleton, because it is expensive to create. The
                <codeph>ClusterHelper</codeph> stores the connection to the cluster for easy reuse
            within your applications.<p>To get a references to a bucket, with which you can then
                execute operations such as Get, Insert and Remove, you can use the
                    <codeph>GetBucket</codeph> method on <codeph>ClusterHelper</codeph>. This
                returns an <codeph>IBucket</codeph> which exposes the majority of the operations
                available in Couchbase.</p><p>An example of getting a reference to a
                    <codeph>bucket</codeph> and retrieving a document is below:</p><p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">var bucket = ClusterHelper.GetBucket("default");
var user = bucket.Get&lt;User>("user::" + 123); // retrieves the document 'user::123' and deserializes it into the application User class
</codeblock>
            </p></section>

        <section><title>Key/Value: Users</title><b>Where</b>: <xref
                href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-dotnet/blob/master/src/try-cb-dotnet/Controllers/UserController.cs"
                format="html" scope="external"
                    ><codeph>src/try-cb-dotnet/Controllers/UserController.cs</codeph></xref>
            <p><b>Goals</b>: Use <codeph>Bucket</codeph>'s Key/Value operations and discover the
                    <codeph>Document</codeph> API.</p><b>Relevant Documentation Topics</b>: <xref
                href="document-operations.dita"/>, <xref href="async-programming.dita"/>
            <p>Couchbase Server is a document-oriented database which provides access to your data
                both through its document ID (for high performance access), as well as through
                map/reduce views and N1QL (SQL like query language).</p>This is noticeable in the
            API, where the methods reflect Key/Value operations (<codeph>get</codeph>,
                <codeph>create</codeph>, etc...) and work with a <codeph>Document&lt;T></codeph>
            interface that has an <codeph>Id</codeph> and a <codeph>Content</codeph>. <p>Typically,
                in this type of scenario you would implement the Repository pattern to separte
                functional logic from business logic. However, to make this sample as easy to get up
                to speed with controllers are used instead.</p>
            <b>Creating New Users</b>
            <p>For the purposes of this sample application users are required to register before
                they can book flights. All the user related operations are going to exist in the
                    <codeph>UserController</codeph>.</p><p>The <codeph>SignUp</codeph> method is
                where new users are registered. The method takes a <codeph>LoginModel</codeph>
                    (<codeph>src/Models/LoginModel.cs</codeph>) as the only method parameter.
                ASP.NET has an automatic model binder where it can map a POST request's properties
                to a custom class, like the <codeph>LoginModel</codeph>. The property types and
                names have to match for it to assign the
                value.<codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">public async Task&lt;IHttpActionResult> SignUp(LoginModel model)</codeblock></p><p>The
                model is validated to ensure that the username and password fields are non-empty and
                then checked to see if the username already exists. For the purposes of this sample
                app, the user document keys are in the format <codeph>user::&lt;username></codeph>.
                The <codeph>ExistsAsync</codeph> method is used to do a non-blocking check to see if
                the document already exists in the
                bucket.</p><codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">var userKey = CreateUserKey(model.Username);
if (await _bucket.ExistsAsync(userKey))
{
    return Content(HttpStatusCode.Conflict, new Error($"Username '{model.Username}' already exists"));
}</codeblock><p>Next
                a document with the user details is created and stored in Couchbase Server. The
                    <codeph>userKey</codeph> created earlier is used and alsoa document expiry time
                is included if one was set on the model. As you do not want to store plain text
                passwords, the passwords are MD5-hashed before storing it in the user document.
                <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">var userDoc = new Document&lt;User>
{
    Id = userKey,
    Content = new User
    {
        Username = model.Username,
        Password = CalcuateMd5Hash(model.Password)
    },
    Expiry = model.Expiry
};

var result = await _bucket.InsertAsync(userDoc);</codeblock></p><p>The
                non-blocking <codeph>InsertAsync</codeph> method is used to ensure that a thread
                waiting for the response from Couchbase Server is not blocked. Once the code
                receives the response, it continues where it left off.</p><p>The last thing to do is
                to create a security token for the browser, so that the front end knows that
                additional requests are for a valid user. For this a JWT (JSON Web Token) is used,
                which includes the username in a list of claims and is then encrypted with a secret
                key. The secret is stored in the
                <codeph>Web.Config</codeph>.<codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">var data = new
{
    token = BuildToken(model.Username)
};
var context = $"Created user with ID '{userKey}' in bucket '{_bucket.Name}' that expires in {userDoc.Expiry}ms";
return Content(HttpStatusCode.Accepted, new Result(data, context));</codeblock></p><p>The
                response content has two parts, the first is the JWT and the second part is a
                narration string which is something the frontend app understands and will display in
                a console. The narration enables the users of the application to get an idea of what
                is going on on the server side while browsing the app. It is similar to a log, but
                sent to the frontend.</p><b>Loging in Signed up Users</b>
            <p>The <codeph>Login</codeph> method enables users who have already signed up to sign in
                and use the application. The <codeph>Login</codeph> method signature looks like
                this:<codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">public async Task&lt;IHttpActionResult> Login(LoginModel model)</codeblock>The
                    <codeph>LoginModel</codeph> includes <codeph>Username</codeph> and
                    <codeph>Password</codeph> properties that can be used to find the user document
                and verify the passwords.</p><p>First the user document must be retrieved and the
                password checked to ensure that it matches with the model. The user document key
                needs to be built using the model's username property, the document is then
                retrieved from Couchbase
                Server.<codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">var userKey = CreateUserKey(model.Username);
var userDocument = await _bucket.GetDocumentAsync&lt;User>(userKey);</codeblock></p><p>Now
                the application has a user document, it can check the passwords match. Remember the
                password was hashed in the document for added security so the model's password will
                also have to be hashed before they are
                compared.<codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">var user = userDocument.Content;
if (user.Password != CalcuateMd5Hash(model.Password))
{
    return Content(HttpStatusCode.Unauthorized, new Error("Invalid username and/or password"));
}</codeblock></p><p>All
                that is left to do is create the security token like was done for the
                    <codeph>SignUp</codeph> method and return it. A narration to go in the response
                content is also created for the frontend app to report
                on.<codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">var data = new
{
    token = BuildToken(user.Username)
};
var context = $"User {model.Username} logged in successfully";
return Content(HttpStatusCode.OK, new Result(data, context));</codeblock></p><p><b>Getting
                    a User's Stored Flights</b></p><p>A way to retrieve the flights that a user has
                booked is required for the application. The <codeph>GetFlightsForUser</codeph>
                method does
                this.<codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">public async Task&lt;IHttpActionResult> GetFlightsForUser(string username)</codeblock></p><p>This
                is going to be the first time that the application checks for a valid security
                token; it has only generated these so far. The security token is fairly simple and
                only includes the username of the user, but that is enough for this sample
                application. To verify the token the <codeph>authentication</codeph> header needs to
                be fetched and then decrypted. If this fails for any reason, the application returns
                either a 401 (Unauthorized) or a 403 (Forbidden) response.
                <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">var authHeaderValue = GetAuthHeaderValue(Request.Headers);
if (string.IsNullOrEmpty(authHeaderValue))
{
    return Content(HttpStatusCode.Unauthorized, string.Empty);
}
if (!VerifyToken(authHeaderValue, username))
{
    return Content(HttpStatusCode.Forbidden, string.Empty);
}</codeblock></p><p>The
                username is passed in as one of the method parameters, so it can be used to create
                the user document key and get the document from Couchbase
                Server.<codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">var userKey = CreateUserKey(username);
var userDocument = await _bucket.GetDocumentAsync&lt;User>(userKey);</codeblock></p><p>The
                final thing to do is return the list of flights for the user with some narration for
                the frontend application to
                record.<codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">var data = userDocument.Content.Flights;
var context = $"Retrieved flights for user {username}.";
return Content(HttpStatusCode.OK, new Result(data, context));</codeblock></p></section>

        <section>
            <title>N1QL: Flight Paths</title>
            <p><b>Where</b>: <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-dotnet/blob/master/src/try-cb-dotnet/Controllers/FlightsController.cs"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                        ><codeph>src/try-cb-dotnet/Controllers/FlightsController.cs</codeph></xref></p>
            <p><b>Goals</b>: Use N1QL to perform <codeph>SELECT</codeph> on Couchbase.</p>
            <p><b>Relevant Documentation Topics</b>: <xref href="n1ql-queries-with-sdk.dita"/>.</p>
            <p>In the SDK, there is a <codeph>query</codeph> method that accepts all variants of
                querying with Couchbase (views, spatial/geo views, N1QL and FTS). For N1QL, the
                    <codeph>IQueryRequest</codeph> is expected. This allows to wrap a N1QL
                    <codeph>Statement</codeph>, use positional parameters and provide query tuning
                (eg Timeout).</p>
            <note type="tip">N1QL is a super-set of SQL, so if you're familiar with SQL you'll feel
                at ease.</note>
            <p>This controller has one method, <codeph>GetFlights</codeph>, which provides flight
                routes between two airports. It uses a N1QL query to get them. The method has three
                parameters; <codeph>from</codeph>, <codeph>to</codeph> and <codeph>leave</codeph>
                (string for departure date). The first thing the application does is validate the
                parameters, returning a 500 (InternalServerError) if it's
                not.<codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">if (string.IsNullOrEmpty(from) || string.IsNullOrEmpty(to))
{
    return Content(HttpStatusCode.InternalServerError, new Error("Missing or invalid from and/or to airports"));
}

DateTime leaveDate;
if (!DateTime.TryParse(leave, out leaveDate))
{
    return Content(HttpStatusCode.InternalServerError, new Error("Missing or invalid leave date"));
}

var dayOfWeek = (int) leaveDate.DayOfWeek + 1; // Get weekday number; Sun (0) to Sat (7)</codeblock></p>
            <p>Next the <codeph>from</codeph> and <codeph>to</codeph> parameters are used to get the
                airport FAA code along with its geo-location latitude and longitude.</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">var airportQuery = new QueryRequest()
    .Statement("SELECT faa AS fromAirport, geo.lat, geo.lon " +
        "FROM `travel-sample` " +
        "WHERE airportname = $1 " +
        "UNION " +
        "SELECT faa AS toAirport, geo.lat, geo.lon " +
        "FROM `travel-sample` " +
        "WHERE airportname = $2;")
    .AddPositionalParameter(from, to);
var airportQueryResult = await _bucket.QueryAsync&lt;dynamic>(airportQuery);</codeblock>
            <p>After doing some checks to ensure there are results from both airport codes, the
                application then does some Geo-location calculations to find the distance between
                the two airports and the estimated travel time. The distance and travel time are
                then used when calculating ticket
                prices.<codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">var fromCoordinate = new GeoCoordinate((double) fromAirport.lat, (double) fromAirport.lon);
var toCoordinate = new GeoCoordinate((double) toAirport.lat, (double) toAirport.lon);
var distance = fromCoordinate.GetDistanceTo(toCoordinate);
var flightTime = Math.Round(distance/AverageFlightSpeed, 2);</codeblock></p>
            <p>Next, all flights between the the two airports have to be
                retrieved.<codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">var flightQuery = new QueryRequest()
    .Statement("SELECT a.name, s.flight, s.utc, r.sourceairport, r.destinationairport, r.equipment " +
        "FROM `travel-sample` AS r " +
        "UNNEST r.schedule AS s " +
        "JOIN `travel-sample` AS a ON KEYS r.airlineid " +
        "WHERE r.sourceairport = $1 " +
        "AND r.destinationairport = $2 " +
        "AND s.day = $3 " +
        "ORDER BY a.name ASC;")
    .AddPositionalParameter((string) fromAirport.fromAirport, (string) toAirport.toAirport, dayOfWeek);
queries.Add(flightQuery.GetOriginalStatement());</codeblock></p>
            <note type="tip"> Yes, you read that right, N1QL can do joins (on a single bucket or on
                several). It works as long as the "foreign key" described by <codeph>ON
                    KEYS</codeph> clause can be mapped to a document's key in the joined bucket. </note>
            <p>A specificity of N1QL that is seen in the second statement is
                <codeph>UNNEST</codeph>. It extracts a sub-JSON and puts it at the same root level
                as the bucket (so its possible to do joins on each element in this sub-JSON as if
                they were entries in a left-hand side bucket). </p>
            <p>The application now has all flights between the <codeph>from</codeph> and
                    <codeph>to</codeph> airports but there are not any prices any prices. These are
                then
                calculated.<codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">var flights = flightQueryResult.Rows;
foreach (var flight in flights)
{
    flight.FlightTime = flightTime;
    flight.Price = _random.Next(2000);
}</codeblock></p>
        </section>

        <section id="section_tpl_lcd_gy">
            <title>LINQ: Airports</title>
            <p><b>Where</b>: <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-dotnet/blob/master/src/try-cb-dotnet/Controllers/AirportController.cs"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                        ><codeph>src/try-cb-dotnet/Controllers/AirportController.cs</codeph></xref></p>
            <p><b>Goals</b>: Use the LINQ provider to build N1QL queries to retrieve Airport
                details.</p>
            <p>LINQ is a standardised way of constructing queries over a data storage engine, such
                as in-memory collections, SQL and even NoSQL like Couchbase. It's a very simple yet
                powerful tool that enables developers to write complicated queries
                programatically.</p>
            <p>In this Controller the application is trying to find the aiport name, given some
                additional information about the airport. It uses the LINQ provider to build the
                queries. </p>
            <p>The first query looks for an airport using its FAA code.</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">airports = _context.Query&lt;Airport>()
    .Where(x => x.Faa == search.ToUpper())
    .Select(x => x.Airportname);
"SELECT airportname FROM `travel-sample` WHERE type = 'airport' AND faa = '{search.ToUpper()}'"</codeblock>
            <p>The second query looks for an airport using its ICAO
                code.<codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">airports = _context.Query&lt;Airport>()
    .Where(x => x.Icao == search.ToUpper())
    .Select(x => x.Airportname);
"SELECT airportname FROM `travel-sample` WHERE type = 'airport' AND icao = '{search.ToUpper()}'"</codeblock></p>
            <p>The third query looks for an airport using its
                name.<codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">airports = _context.Query&lt;Airport>()
    .Where(x => x.Airportname.Contains(search))
    .Select(x => x.Airportname);
"SELECT airportname FROM `travel-sample` WHERE type = 'airport' AND airportname LIKE '%{search}%'"</codeblock></p>
            <p>Once one of the above queries has been executed, the result then needs to be returned
                to the frontend application along with a narration of the query that was
                executed.<codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">var data = airports.Select(airportname => new {airportname});
return Content(HttpStatusCode.OK, new Result(data, query));</codeblock></p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Indexing the Data: N1QL &amp; GSI</title>
            <p><b>Where</b>: <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-dotnet/blob/master/src/try-cb-dotnet/App_Start/CouchbaseConfig.cs"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                        ><codeph>src/try-cb-dotnet/App_Start/CouchbaseConfig.cs</codeph></xref></p>
            <p>Index management is a bit more advanced (and is already done when loading the
                sample), so now that you've learned about N1QL, you can have a look. For N1QL to
                work, you must first ensure that at least a <codeph>Primary Index</codeph> has been
                created. For that you can use the DSL from the <codeph>BucketManager</codeph> class: </p>
            <p><b>Goals</b>: Use the Index DSL to make sure data is indexed ready for N1QL to query
                it.</p>
<codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">bucketManager.CreateN1qlPrimaryIndex(false); // create primary index, and don't defer building it</codeblock>
            <p>The fluent API will guide you with the available options, you just have to declare
                that you want to <codeph>CreateN1qlPrimaryIndex()</codeph>. </p>
            <p>You can also create secondary indexes on specific fields of the JSON, for better
                performance: </p>
<codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">bucketManager.CreateN1qlIndex("index_name", false, "name", "address", etc);</codeblock>
            <p>In this case, give a name to your index, specify if the index is to be deferred for
                building then an array of property names to index.</p>
        </section>
        <section><title>Full Text Search: Finding Hotels</title><p><b>Where</b>: <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-dotnet/blob/master/src/try-cb-dotnet/Controllers/HotelController.cs"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                        ><codeph>src/try-cb-dotnet/Controllers/HotelController.cs</codeph></xref></p><p><b>Goals</b>:
                Use FTS to search for matching Hotels. Use subdoc API to fetch the relevant data for
                each hit.</p><p><b>Relevant Documentation Topics</b>: <xref
                    href="full-text-searching-with-sdk.dita"/>, <xref
                    href="../subdocument-operations.dita"/>.</p><p>In this service, hotels are
                searched for using more fuzzy criterias, like the content of the address or the
                description of an hotel. This is done using Full Text Search (FTS). When some
                results match the specified criteria, only the relevant data for each result to be
                displayed in the UI is fetched using the subdocument API. </p><p>Let's have a look
                at the <codeph>FindHotel</codeph> method. It accepts two parameters,
                    <codeph>location</codeph> and <codeph>description</codeph>, which are the two
                possible refining criterias for an hotel
                search.<codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">public HttpResponseMessage FindHotel(string description = null, string location = null)</codeblock></p><p>A
                    <codeph>ConjunctionQuery</codeph> allows you to combine multiple FTS queries
                into one, in a logical AND fashion. This query includes an exact match criteria that
                restricts it to the <codeph>hotel</codeph> data type (as reflected in the
                    <codeph>type</codeph> field of the JSON
                document).</p><codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">var query = new ConjunctionQuery(
    new TermQuery("hotel").Field("type")
);</codeblock><p>If
                the user provided a location keyword, a second component is added to the FTS query
                that will look for that keyword in several address-related fields of the document.
                That is done in an OR fashion, using a <codeph>Disjunction</codeph>
                query:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">if (!string.IsNullOrEmpty(location) &amp;&amp; location != "*")
{
    query.And(new DisjunctionQuery(
        new PhraseQuery(location).Field("address"),
        new PhraseQuery(location).Field("city"),
        new PhraseQuery(location).Field("state"),
        new PhraseQuery(location).Field("country")
    ));
}</codeblock><p>Similarly,
                if a description keyword was provided by the user, the freeform text is inspected of
                the <codeph>description</codeph> field and <codeph>name</codeph> field of the
                document:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">if (!string.IsNullOrEmpty(description) &amp;&amp; description != "*")
{
    query.And(new DisjunctionQuery(
        new PhraseQuery(description).Field("name"),
        new PhraseQuery(description).Field("description")
    ));
}</codeblock><p>The
                    <codeph>matchPhrase</codeph> FTS query can contain several words and will search
                for variations of the words (eg. including plural forms or words with the same
                root).</p><p>The compound FTS query is now ready to be executed. A
                    <codeph>SearchQuery</codeph> object is built out of it, which also determines
                which FTS index to use ("hotel") and allows you to set various parameters (like a
                limit of maximum 100 hits to return). The query is logged (and kept for narration)
                then executed, returning an <codeph>ISearchQueryResult</codeph>
            object:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">var search = new SearchQuery();
search.Index = "hotel";
search.Query = query;
search.Limit(100);</codeblock>The
            FTS results are then iterated over, and the document corresponding to each result is
            fetched. In actuality, only the parts of the document that will be displayed in the UI
            are required. This is where the sub-document API comes in.<p>The sub-document API allows
                you to fetch or mutate only a set of paths inside a JSON document, without having to
                send the whole document back and forth. This can save network bandwidth if the
                document is large and the parts that we're interested in are small. So here the
                results of the FTS search are iterated over and appropriate subdoc calls are
                triggered:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">var result = _bucket.Query(search);
foreach (var row in result)
{
    var fragment = _bucket.LookupIn&lt;Hotel>(row.Id)
    .Get("name")
        .Get("description")
        .Get("address")
        .Get("city")
        .Get("state")
        .Get("country")
        .Execute();</codeblock><p>Each
                FTS result is represented as an <codeph>ISearchQueryRow</codeph> which exposes the
                document's <codeph>Id</codeph>. The sub-document API can then be used to fetch data
                    (<codeph>bucket.LookupIn&lt;T>(documentId)</codeph>) and specify what parts are
                wanted: name, description, address, city, state and country. The application then
                    <codeph>Execute()</codeph> the sub-document query. In the rest of the code, the
                address-related fields are aggregated together and the data obtained is
                returned.</p>Now the results are obtained, the application can build up the
                <codeph>Hotel</codeph> objects and return them along with the FTS query
            narration.<codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">    hotels.Add(new
    {
        name = fragment.Value.Name,
        description = fragment.Value.Description,
        address = fragment.Value.GetFullAddress()
    });
}

return Request.CreateResponse(new Result(hotels, queryJson));</codeblock></section>
    </body>
</topic>
