<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dotnet_sdk_xattr_example">
    
    <title>
        Sample Code
    </title>
    
    <shortdesc>
        The .NET SDK supports creation and handling of <i>extended attributes</i>.  
    </shortdesc>
    
    <body>
        <section>
            <title>
                Subdocument Operations and Extended Attributes
            </title>
            
            <p>
                A high-level summary of extended attributes can be found in
                <xref href="./sdk-xattr-overview.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Extended
                Attributes</xref>. Extended attributes are handled by means of
                extensions to the <i>Subdocument API</i>.
            </p>
            
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>
                .NET Extended Attributes Example
            </title>
            
            <p>
                The following code demonstrates how 
                extended attributes be used. It assumes that Couchbase Server is
                established on <codeph>localhost</codeph>; that the Full Administrator username and
                password are <codeph>Administrator</codeph> and <codeph>password</codeph> respectively;
                and that the <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> bucket is 
                installed. For information on installing the <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> bucket, see
                <xref href="../../settings/install-sample-buckets.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Install Sample Buckets</xref>.
            </p>
            
            <codeblock outputclass="language-dotnet">using System;
using System.Collections.Generic;
using Couchbase;
using Couchbase.Configuration.Client;
using Couchbase.Core;
using Couchbase.Management;
                
namespace XATTRsSample
{
    class Program
    {
        static void Main()
        {
            var config = new ClientConfiguration
            {
                Servers = new List&lt;Uri&gt; {new Uri("http://10.112.170.101:8091/")}
            };
                    
            // Access the cluster that is running on the local host, authenticating with
            // the username and password of the Full Administrator. This
            // provides all privileges.
            //
            using (var cluster = new Cluster(config))
            {
                Console.WriteLine("Authenticating as administrator.");
                cluster.Authenticate("Administrator", "password");
                    
                // Open the travel-sample bucket.
                //
                var bucket = cluster.OpenBucket("travel-sample");
                    
                // Add key-value pairs to hotel_10138, representing traveller-Ids and associated discount percentages.
                //
                bucket.MutateIn&lt;dynamic&gt;("hotel_10138")
                    .Upsert("discounts.jsmith123", "20", SubdocMutateFlags.CreatePath | SubdocMutateFlags.XattrPath)
                    .Upsert("discounts.pjones356", "30", SubdocMutateFlags.CreatePath | SubdocMutateFlags.XattrPath)
                        
                    // The following lines, "insert" and "remove", simply demonstrate insertion and
                    // removal of the same path and value.
                    //
                    .Insert("discounts.jbrown789", "25", SubdocMutateFlags.CreatePath | SubdocMutateFlags.XattrPath)
                    .Remove("discounts.jbrown789", SubdocMutateFlags.XattrPath)
                        
                    .Execute();
                        
                // Add key-value pairs to hotel_10142, again representing traveller-Ids and associated discount percentages.
                //
                bucket.MutateIn&lt;dynamic&gt;("hotel_10142")
                    .Upsert("discounts.jsmith123", "15", SubdocMutateFlags.CreatePath | SubdocMutateFlags.XattrPath)
                    .Upsert("discounts.pjones356", "10", SubdocMutateFlags.CreatePath | SubdocMutateFlags.XattrPath)
                    .Execute();
                        
                // Create a user and assign roles. This user will search for their
                // available discounts.
                //
                Console.WriteLine("Upserting new user.");
                        
                cluster.CreateManager().UpsertUser("jsmith123", "jsmith123pwd", "John Smith",
                    new Role[]
                    {
                        // Roles required for the reading of data from
                        // the bucket.
                        //
                        new Role {Name = "data_reader", BucketName = "travel-sample"},
                        new Role {Name = "query_select", BucketName = "travel-sample"},
                        
                        // Roles required for the writing of data into
                        // the bucket.
                        //
                        new Role {Name = "data_writer", BucketName = "travel-sample"},
                        new Role {Name = "query_insert", BucketName = "travel-sample"},
                        new Role {Name = "query_delete", BucketName = "travel-sample"},
                        
                        // Role required for the creation of indexes
                        // on the bucket.
                        //
                        new Role {Name = "query_manage_index", BucketName = "travel-sample"}
                    }
                );
            }
                        
            using (var cluster = new Cluster(config))
            {
                // Re-access the cluster as the created user.
                //
                Console.WriteLine("User now connecting and authenticating.");
                cluster.Authenticate("jsmith123", "jsmith123pwd");
                
                Console.WriteLine("Opening travel-sample bucket as user.");
                var bucket = cluster.OpenBucket("travel-sample");
                
                // Perform a N1QL Query to return document IDs from the bucket. These IDs will be
                // used to reference each document in turn, and check for extended attributues
                // corresponding to discounts.
                //
                Console.WriteLine("Searching for discounts, as user.");
                    var result = cluster.Query&lt;dynamic&gt;(
                        "SELECT id, meta(`travel-sample`).id " +
                        "AS docID FROM `travel-sample`;"
                );
                        
                // Get the docID of each document returned, and use the ID to determine whether
                // the extended attribute exists.
                //
                var resultsReturned = string.Empty;
                var searchPath = "discounts.jsmith123";
                        
                foreach (var row in result)
                {
                    // Get the docID of the current document.
                    //
                    var theId = (string) row.docID;
                    
                    // Determine whether a hotel-discount has been applied to this user.
                    //
                    var whetherDiscountExistsForUser = bucket.LookupIn&lt;dynamic&gt;(theId)
                        .Exists(searchPath, SubdocLookupFlags.XattrPath)
                        .Execute();
                            
                    // If so, get the discount-percentage.
                    //
                    if (whetherDiscountExistsForUser.Success)
                    {
                        var percentageValueOfDiscount = bucket.LookupIn&lt;dynamic&gt;(theId)
                            .Get(searchPath, SubdocLookupFlags.XattrPath)
                            .Execute();

                        // If the percentage-value is greater than 15, include the document in the
                        // results to be returned.
                        //
                        if (percentageValueOfDiscount.Content&lt;int&gt;(searchPath) > 15)
                        {
                            resultsReturned = resultsReturned + Environment.NewLine + bucket.Get&lt;dynamic&gt;(theId);
                        }
                    }
                }
                                        
                // Display the results, which features only hotels offering more than a 15% discount
                // to the current user.
                //
                Console.WriteLine("Results returned are: {0}", resultsReturned);
           }
        }
    }
}</codeblock>

            
        </section>
        
    </body>
        
</topic>
