<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dotnet_sdk_user_management">
    
    <title>
        SDK User-Management Example
    </title>
    
    <shortdesc>
        The .NET SDK now lets you create <i>users</i>, assign them <i>roles</i> and 
        associated <i>privileges</i>, and remove them from the system.  
    </shortdesc>
    
    <body>
        <section>
            <title>
                User Management APIs
            </title>
            
            <p>
                Users who have been assigned the <b>Admin</b> role for the cluster are able
                to create, edit, and remove users. The .NET SDK provides APIs to support these
                activities. A high-level summary of the APIs can be found in
                <xref href="../sdk-user-management-overview.dita" scope="local" format="dita">SDK User-Management Overview</xref>.
            </p>
            
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>
                .NET User-Management Example
            </title>
            
            <p>
                The following code-example demonstrates how the user-management APIs can be used. It assumes that Couchbase Server is
                established on <codeph>localhost</codeph>; that the Full Administrator username and
                password are <codeph>Administrator</codeph> and <codeph>password</codeph> respectively;
                and that the <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> bucket is 
                installed. For information on installing the <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> bucket, see
                <xref href="../../settings/install-sample-buckets.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Install Sample Buckets</xref>.
            </p>
            
            <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">using System;
using System.Collections.Generic;
using System.Linq;
using Couchbase;
using Couchbase.Configuration.Client;
using Couchbase.Management;
using Couchbase.N1QL;

namespace UserManagementExample
{
    class Program
    {
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            // Access the cluster that is running on the local host, authenticating with
            // the username and password of the Full Administrator. This
            // provides all privileges.
            var cluster = new Cluster(new ClientConfiguration
            {
                Servers = new List&lt;Uri&gt;
                {
                    new Uri("http://10.111.170.101:8091")
                }
            });
        
            Console.WriteLine("Authenticating as administrator.");
            cluster.Authenticate("Administrator", "password");
        
            // Create a user and assign roles.
            cluster.CreateManager()
                .UpsertUser("cbtestuser", "cbtestuserpwd", "cbtestuser",
        
                    // Roles required for the reading of data from
                    // the bucket.
                    new Role {Name = "data_reader", BucketName = "travel-sample"},
                    new Role {Name = "query_select", BucketName = "travel-sample"},
        
                    // Roles required for the writing of data into
                    // the bucket.
                    new Role {Name = "data_writer", BucketName = "travel-sample"},
                    new Role {Name = "query_insert", BucketName = "travel-sample"},
                    new Role {Name = "query_delete", BucketName = "travel-sample"},
        
                    // Role required for the creation of indexes
                    // on the bucket.
                    new Role {Name = "query_manage_index", BucketName = "travel-sample"}
            );
        
            // List current users.
            Console.WriteLine("Listing current users.");
            var listOfUsers = cluster.CreateManager().GetUsers().Value;
    
            var ofUsers = listOfUsers as User[] ?? listOfUsers.ToArray();
            for (var j = 0; j &lt; ofUsers.Count(); j++)
            {
                var currentUser = ofUsers[j];
    
                Console.WriteLine(Environment.NewLine + "USER #" + j + ": " + Environment.NewLine);
    
                Console.WriteLine("User's name is: " + currentUser.Name);
                Console.WriteLine("User's domain is: " + currentUser.Domain);
    
                var currentRoles = currentUser.Roles.ToArray();
                var arraySize = currentRoles.Length;
    
                for (var i = 0; i &lt; arraySize; i++)
                {
                    Console.WriteLine("User has the role: " + currentRoles[i].Name + ", applicable to bucket " +
                    currentRoles[i].BucketName);
                }
            }
    
            // Access the cluster with the username and password assigned by the administrator'
            Console.WriteLine("Authenticating as user." + Environment.NewLine);
            cluster.Authenticate("cbtestuser", "cbtestuserpwd");
    
            // Open the travel-sample bucket.
            Console.WriteLine("Opening travel-sample bucket as user." + Environment.NewLine);
            var travelSample = cluster.OpenBucket("travel-sample");
    
            // Create a N1QL Primary Index (but ignore if one already exists).
            travelSample.CreateManager().CreateN1qlPrimaryIndex(false);
    
            // Read out an existing document within the bucket.
            Console.WriteLine("Reading out airline_10 document");
            var returnedAirline10Doc = travelSample.GetDocument&lt;dynamic&gt;("airline_10");
            Console.WriteLine("Found: " + returnedAirline10Doc.Content);
        
            // Create a new document.
            Console.WriteLine(Environment.NewLine + "Creating new document as user.");
            var airline11Document = new Document&lt;dynamic&gt;
            {
                Id = "airline_11",
                Content = new
                {
                    callsign = "MILE-AIR",
                    iata = "Q5",
                    icao = "MLA",
                    id = 11,
                    name = "40-Mile Air",
                    type = "airline"
                }
            };
        
            // Upsert the document to the bucket.
            Console.WriteLine("Upserting new document as user.");
            travelSample.Upsert(airline11Document);
        
            Console.WriteLine("Reading out airline11Document as user.");
            var returnedAirline11Doc = travelSample.GetDocument&lt;dynamic&gt;("airline_11");
            Console.WriteLine("Found: " + returnedAirline11Doc.Content);
        
            // Perform a N1QL Query.
            Console.WriteLine("Performing query as user.");
            var returnedValues = "Query-results are: \n\t";
        
            var result = travelSample.Query&lt;dynamic&gt;(new QueryRequest("SELECT * FROM `travel-sample` LIMIT 5"));
            foreach (var row in result)
            {
                returnedValues = returnedValues + row + Environment.NewLine + Environment.NewLine + '\t';
            }
        
            Console.WriteLine(returnedValues);
        
            // Access the cluster that is running on the local host, authenticating with
            // the username and password of the Full Administrator. This
            // provides all privileges.
            Console.WriteLine("Re-authenticating as administrator.");
            cluster.Authenticate("Administrator", "password");
        
            // Remove known user.
            Console.WriteLine("Removing user as administrator.");
            var userToBeRemoved = "cbtestuser";
            var whetherOrNotUserWasRemoved = cluster.CreateManager().RemoveUser(userToBeRemoved).Success;
        
            if (!whetherOrNotUserWasRemoved)
            {
                Console.WriteLine("Could not delete user " + userToBeRemoved + ".");
            }
            else
            {
                Console.WriteLine("Deleted user " + userToBeRemoved + ".");
            }
        
            // Disconnect from the cluster.
            //
            cluster.Dispose();
        
            Console.Read();
        }
    }
}</codeblock>
            
            
        </section>
        
    </body>
    
</topic>
