<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dotnet-views">
  <title>MapReduce Views Using the .NET SDK with Couchbase Server</title>
  <titlealts><navtitle>MapReduce Views</navtitle></titlealts>
  <shortdesc>You can use MapReduce views to create query-able indexes in Couchbase
    Server.</shortdesc>
  <body>
      <section conref="../shared/views.dita#toplevel/views-intro"/>
      <section conref="../shared/views.dita#toplevel/example-travel"/>
      <section conref="../shared/views.dita#toplevel/example-geo-travel"/>
    <section>
      <title>Querying Views through the .NET SDK</title>
      <p>Once you have a view defined, it can be queried from the .NET SDK by using the
        Query(IViewQueryable query) method on the CouchbaseBucket class. Here is an example:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp" spectitle="Querying simply MapReduce view">var cluster = new Cluster(new ClientConfiguration());
var bucket = cluster.OpenBucket("travel-sample"));

var query = new ViewQuery().From("landmarks", "by_name").Limit(10);
var landmarks = bucket.Query&lt;dynamic>(query);
foreach (var landmark in landmarks.Rows)
{
    Console.WriteLine(landmark.Key);
}</codeblock>

      <p>The <apiname>Query(IViewQueryable query)</apiname> method takes a
        <apiname>ViewQuery</apiname>, which is the standard implementation of
        <apiname>IViewQueryable</apiname>, executes the query and returns back the result of query
        as a <apiname>IViewResult</apiname>. Some useful methods and properties of the
        <apiname>ViewQuery</apiname> class include (others can be seen in the reference
        documentation):<ul id="ul_vjp_xhz_dw">
          <li><apiname>DesignDoc</apiname>: sets the name of the design document.</li>
          <li><apiname>View</apiname>: sets the name of the view to query</li>
          <li><apiname>Asc</apiname>: return the documents in ascending by key order</li>
          <li><apiname>Desc</apiname>: return the documents in descending by key order</li>
          <li><apiname>Skip</apiname>: skip this number of records before starting to return the
            results</li>
          <li><apiname>Limit</apiname>: limit the number of the returned documents to the specified
            number</li>
          <li><apiname>Key</apiname>: return only documents that match the specified key. </li>
          <li><apiname>Keys</apiname>: return only documents that match one of keys specified within
            the given array</li>
        </ul>The <apiname>Query(IViewQueryable query)</apiname> returns an
        <apiname>IViewResult</apiname> implementation that contains the results of the query plus
        additional information regarding the status of the query, which is useful for debugging:<ul
          id="ul_h4g_gkz_dw">
          <li><apiname>Rows</apiname>: the results of the query if successful as an
            <apiname>IEnumerable&lt;ViewRow&gt;</apiname>.</li>
          <li><apiname>TotalRows</apiname>: the total count of all rows.</li>
          <li><apiname>Values</apiname>: a list containing only the <apiname>Value</apiname> property
            of each <apiname>ViewRow</apiname> returned by <apiname>Rows</apiname>.</li>
          <li><apiname>Success</apiname>: true if the request was successful.</li>
          <li><apiname>Exception</apiname>: if Success is false and an exception has been caught
            internally, this field will contain the exception.</li>
          <li><apiname>Error</apiname>: an error message if one occurred.</li>
        </ul>The ViewRow represents each row returned by the view request and contains properties for
        the document Id, the Key and the Value if it was emitted. Here is another example of a more
        advanced query:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp" spectitle="Querying a MapReduce view">var cluster = new Cluster(new ClientConfiguration());
var bucket = cluster.OpenBucket("travel-sample"));

var query = new ViewQuery().From("landmarks", "by_name").Limit(10).StartKey("A").EndKey(@"A\u0fff");
var landmarks = bucket.Query&lt;dynamic>(query);
foreach (var landmark in landmarks.Rows)
{
    Console.WriteLine(landmark.Key);
}</codeblock>

      <p>Here's some sample output for the previous query:</p>
      <codeblock>A R M Chicken
A. Cavalli &amp;</codeblock>

    </section>


    <section><title>Querying Geospatial Views</title>
        <p>To query a geospatial view, you will need to construct a
        <apiname>SpatialViewQuery</apiname> object
        (<apiname>Couchbase.Views.SpatialViewQuery</apiname>). Spatial queries accept a
        <parmname>StartRange</parmname> and an <parmname>EndRange</parmname> parameter which allow
      you to limit the enclosing bounding boxes of the result. The arguments to these parameters are
        <apiname>List&lt;double></apiname> 's with each element corresponding to a component emitted
      by the key (the first two components implicitly being the longitude and latitude of the result
      itself).</p>
      <p>On output, spatial queries yield instances of <apiname>SpatialViewRow</apiname>
        classes. A <apiname>SpatialViewRow</apiname> is similar to a <apiname>ViewRow</apiname>,
        with an added <codeph>Geometry</codeph> property.</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp" spectitle="Advanced querying a spatial view">var cluster = new Cluster(new ClientConfiguration());
var bucket = cluster.OpenBucket("travel-sample"));

var query = new SpatialViewQuery().From("spatial", "by_location")
                .Bucket("travel-sample")
                .StartRange(new List&lt;double?> { 0, -90})
                .EndRange(new List&lt;double?> { 180, 90 })
                .Limit(10);

var result = bucket.Query&lt;dynamic>(query);
foreach (var viewRow in result.Rows)
{
    Console.WriteLine(viewRow.Value);
}</codeblock>
      In the example above, we create a <apiname>Cluster</apiname> object and then open a
        <apiname>CouchbaseBucket</apiname> called "travel-sample" from the
        <apiname>Cluster</apiname> object. We then construct a <apiname>SpatialViewQuery</apiname>
      that will target the "by_location" view on the "spatial" design document. We then pass the start
      and end coordinates in via the <apiname>StartRange</apiname> and <apiname>EndRange</apiname>
      methods and finally we limit are results to 10 items with the <apiname>Limit</apiname> method.
      The query is executed by passing it into the
        <apiname>CouchbaseBucket.Query&lt;T>(IViewQueryable query)</apiname> method which returns an
        <apiname>IViewResult</apiname> implementation with the results of the query.</section>
  </body>
</topic>
