<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="kafka3-release-notes">
    <title>Release Notes</title>
    <shortdesc>Release notes for the Kafka Connector.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <section>
            <title>Couchbase Kafka Connector 3.2.3 GA (2018-02-20)</title>

            <p>Keepalive is now enabled on the Couchbase Server connection. This prevents the server from dropping
            idle connections, and enables dead connection detection. Thanks to community member Patrik Nordebo (patrikn).</p>
            <p>A new config key "couchbase.log_redaction" controls
                whether sensitive info in connector log messages is tagged for redaction.
                Options are "NONE", "PARTIAL", and "FULL".</p>
            <p>A new source config key "couchbase.compression" can be used to enable
               compression when reading from Couchbase Server 4.5 and later.
               Options are "DISABLED", "ENABLED", and "FORCED".</p>
            <p>The connector can now talk to Couchbase Server 5.5 and later over IPv6.
               If Couchbase has been configured to run in IPv6 mode, set the environment variable
               <codeph>KAFKA_OPTS="-Dcom.couchbase.forceIPv4=false"</codeph>
               prior to running the connect worker. (The method for activating IPv6 may change
               in a future release of the connector.)</p>
            <p>Issues resolved in this release:
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-89" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-89</xref>:
                    [ENHANCEMENT] Enable NOOP for dead connection detection (Patrik Nordebo)
                </li>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-82" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-82</xref>:
                    [FEATURE] Implement log redaction for Kafka Connector
                </li>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-90" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-90</xref>:
                    [FEATURE] Source: Add config settings to enable compression
                </li>
            </ul>
            </p>
            <p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-xml"><![CDATA[<dependency>
    <groupId>com.couchbase.client</groupId>
    <artifactId>kafka-connect-couchbase</artifactId>
    <version>3.2.3</version>
</dependency>]]></codeblock>
            </p>
            <p><xref href="http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/kafka/3.2.3/kafka-connect-couchbase-3.2.3.zip" format="html" scope="external">kafka-connect-couchbase-3.2.3.zip</xref></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Couchbase Kafka Connector 3.2.2 GA (19 December 2017)</title>

            <p>The source connector now does a better job of reporting abnormal termination.
                Thanks to community member p_mx (tiny1990).</p>
            <p>A new config key "couchbase.stream_from" lets you tell the source connector
                when in Couchbase history to start streaming from.
                Options are "BEGINNING", "NOW", "SAVED_OFFSET_OR_BEGINNING", and "SAVED_OFFSET_OR_NOW".</p>
            <p>When the sink connector receives a Kafka message with a null value, it now deletes
                the Couchbase document whose ID matches the Kafka message key. (Previous versions would terminate
                when a null value was encountered.)</p>
            <p>You can now specify durability requirements for the sink connector's write operations
                via two new config keys: "couchbase.durability.persist_to" and "couchbase.durability.replicate_to".</p>
            <p>Issues resolved in this release:
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-84" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-84</xref>:
                    [FEATURE] Sink: Allow setting durability requirements for Couchbase writes
                </li>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-85" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-85</xref>:
                    [FEATURE] Sink: Support deletion
                </li>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-86" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-86</xref>:
                    [FEATURE] Source: Restart from a given state / offset
                </li>
            </ul>
            </p>
            <p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-xml"><![CDATA[<dependency>
    <groupId>com.couchbase.client</groupId>
    <artifactId>kafka-connect-couchbase</artifactId>
    <version>3.2.2</version>
</dependency>]]></codeblock>
            </p>
            <p><xref href="http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/kafka/3.2.2/kafka-connect-couchbase-3.2.2.zip" format="html" scope="external">kafka-connect-couchbase-3.2.2.zip</xref></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Couchbase Kafka Connector 3.2.1 GA (8 November 2017)</title>

            <p>Fixes a regression in 3.2.0 that prevented the sink connector from working.
            </p>
            <p>Issues resolved in this release:
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-83" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-83</xref>:
                    [BUGFIX] Sink connector fails due to UnsupportedOperationException in JsonBinaryTranscoder.newDocument.
                </li>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-81" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-81</xref>:
                    [ENHANCEMENT] Document how to customize source handler
                </li>
            </ul>
            </p>
            <p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-xml"><![CDATA[<dependency>
    <groupId>com.couchbase.client</groupId>
    <artifactId>kafka-connect-couchbase</artifactId>
    <version>3.2.1</version>
</dependency>]]></codeblock>
            </p>
            <p><xref href="http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/kafka/3.2.1/kafka-connect-couchbase-3.2.1.zip" format="html" scope="external">kafka-connect-couchbase-3.2.1.zip</xref></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Couchbase Kafka Connector 3.2.0 GA (17 October 2017)</title>

            <p>The sink connector is now officially supported.
            </p>
            <p>Multiple source connector instances reading from the same Couchbase bucket can now manage their state
            independently. To enable this feature, assign a unique name to each connector and set the new config property
            <codeph>compat.connector_name_in_offsets</codeph> to <codeph>true</codeph>.
            </p>
            <p>The source connector has a new, more flexible <codeph>SourceHandler</codeph> extension point
            intended to replace the <codeph>Converter</codeph> interface. By providing a custom <codeph>SourceHandler</codeph>,
            a developer can filter events, route messages to a topic other than the configured default topic,
            and control the format of the Kafka message.
            </p>
            <p>The default Kafka message format now includes <codeph>bucket</codeph> and <codeph>vBucketUuid</codeph>
            fields, which may be used along with the <codeph>partition</codeph> (vBucketID) and <codeph>bySeqno</codeph>
            fields to construct a Couchbase MutationToken.
            </p>
            <p>The sink connector now allows the Couchbase document ID to come from a field of the document.
            This feature is controlled by two new config properties, <codeph>couchbase.document.id</codeph> and
            <codeph>couchbase.remove.document.id</codeph>.
            </p>
            <p>The Couchbase client libraries are upgraded to the latest versions, with performance enhancements
            and other improvements for Couchbase Server 5.0.
            </p>
            <p>The following classes are scheduled for removal in version 4.0.0 of the connector:
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <codeph>com.couchbase.connect.kafka.converter.Converter</codeph>
                    - Deprecated in favor of <codeph>SourceHandler</codeph>.
                </li>
                <li>
                    <codeph>com.couchbase.connect.kafka.converter.SchemaConverter</codeph>
                    - Deprecated in favor of <codeph>DefaultSchemaSourceHandler</codeph>.
                </li>
            </ul>
            </p>
            <p>Issues resolved in this release:
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-69" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-69</xref>:
                    [FEATURE] Allow Source connector to split DCP stream and write into separate topics.
                </li>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-70" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-70</xref>:
                    [FEATURE] Allow using connector name in offset storage namespace
                </li>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-77" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-77</xref>:
                    [FEATURE] Allow setting document ID from message field.
                </li>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-78" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-78</xref>:
                    [ENHANCEMENT] Upgrade Couchbase java-client to version 2.5.1, dcp-client to version 0.12.0
                </li>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-79" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-79</xref>:
                    [ENHANCEMENT] Use custom doc transcoder to reduce memory copies.
                </li>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-80" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-80</xref>:
                    [FEATURE] MutationToken Enabled in Kafka Connector to N1QL at plus.
                </li>
            </ul>
            </p>
            <p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-xml"><![CDATA[<dependency>
    <groupId>com.couchbase.client</groupId>
    <artifactId>kafka-connect-couchbase</artifactId>
    <version>3.2.0</version>
</dependency>]]></codeblock>
            </p>
            <p><xref href="http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/kafka/3.2.0/kafka-connect-couchbase-3.2.0.zip" format="html" scope="external">kafka-connect-couchbase-3.2.0.zip</xref></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Couchbase Kafka Connector 3.1.3 GA (31 May 2017)</title>
            <p>Version 3.1.3 is maintenance release.</p>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-71" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-71</xref>:
                    Support for RBAC credentials on Couchbase Server 5+.
                </li>
                <li>
                    Java DCP Client updated to 0.10.0.
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-xml"><![CDATA[<dependency>
    <groupId>com.couchbase.client</groupId>
    <artifactId>kafka-connect-couchbase</artifactId>
    <version>3.1.3</version>
</dependency>]]></codeblock>
            </p>
            <p><xref href="http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/kafka/3.1.3/kafka-connect-couchbase-3.1.3.zip" format="html" scope="external">kafka-connect-couchbase-3.1.3.zip</xref></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Couchbase Kafka Connector 3.1.2 GA (14 March 2017)</title>
            <p>Version 3.1.2 is maintenance release..</p>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-66" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-66</xref>:
                    On backfilling from large bucket, it is possible to get OOM when internal queue is not drained quickly
                    enough to relay the data into Kafka.
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p><xref href="http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/kafka/3.1.2/kafka-connect-couchbase-3.1.2.zip" format="html" scope="external">kafka-connect-couchbase-3.1.2.zip</xref></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Couchbase Kafka Connector 3.1.1 GA (21 February 2017)</title>
            <p>Version 3.1.1 is maintenance release. It contains fixes for resuming DCP streams after restart.</p>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-56" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-56</xref>:
                    Session state might be left partially initialized, which leads to rolling back to sequence
                    number zero (0) and starting from the beginning (duplicating events in Kafka topic).
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p><xref href="http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/kafka/3.1.1/kafka-connect-couchbase-3.1.1.zip" format="html" scope="external">kafka-connect-couchbase-3.1.1.zip</xref></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Couchbase Kafka Connector 3.1.0 GA (03 January 2017)</title>
            <p>Version 3.1.0 is GA release.</p>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-55" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-55</xref>:
                    Sink Connector support
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p><xref href="http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/kafka/3.1.0/kafka-connect-couchbase-3.1.0.zip" format="html" scope="external">kafka-connect-couchbase-3.1.0.zip</xref></p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Couchbase Kafka Connector 3.0.0 GA (14 December 2016)</title>
            <p>Version 3.0.0 is GA release. It brings documentation update.</p>
            <p><xref href="http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/kafka/3.0.0/kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0.zip" format="html" scope="external">kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0.zip</xref></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Couchbase Kafka Connector 3.0.0 BETA (22 November 2016)</title>
            <p>Version 3.0.0-BETA is pre-release version of the 3.0.0. It brings documentation
                update, feature enhancements and bug fixes</p>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-52" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-52</xref>:
                    Support for SSL connections
                </li>
                <li>
                    Update dependencies: dcp-client to 0.7.0, and confluent libraries up to versions shipped with 3.1.1
                </li>
                <li>
                    Cleanup various configuration workarounds for platform 3.0
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p><xref href="http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/kafka/3.0.0-BETA/kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0-BETA.zip" format="html" scope="external">kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0-BETA.zip</xref></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Couchbase Kafka Connector 3.0.0 DP4 (5 November 2016)</title>
            <p>Version 3.0.0-DP4 is the fourth developer preview of the 3.0.x series. </p>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-54" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-54</xref>:
                    Create example of using in Kafka Stream to process events from Couchbase
                </li>
                <li>
                    Rename internal classes, and make configuration more consistent with other connectors (e.g. instead
                    of timeout_ms, use timeout.ms)
                </li>
                <li>
                    Allow to override internal convertor into SourceRecord, and allow to inject Filter class to skip
                    events before writing into Kafka
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p><xref href="http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/kafka/3.0.0-DP4/kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0-DP4.zip" format="html" scope="external">kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0-DP4.zip</xref></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Couchbase Kafka Connector 3.0.0 DP3 (20 October 2016)</title>
            <p>Version 3.0.0-DP3 is the third developer preview of the 3.0.x series. It implements new features and also includes bug fixes to previous release.</p>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-50" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-50</xref>:
                    Allow to buffer DCP snapshots for consistent writes.
                </li>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-51" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-51</xref>:
                    Specify key for SourceRecord. Allows to use multiple Kafka partitions.
                </li>
                <li>
                    <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/KAFKAC-53" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-53</xref>:
                    Node-aware distribution of partitions for Tasks. Reduces amount of resources allocated on the server.
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p><xref href="http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/kafka/3.0.0-DP3/kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0-DP3.zip" format="html" scope="external">kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0-DP3.zip</xref></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Couchbase Kafka Connector 3.0.0 DP2 (24 September 2016)</title>
            <p>Version 3.0.0-DP2 is the second developer preview of the 3.0.x series. It improves configuration. And now
            can maintain replication state, which allow to resume transmission.</p>
            <p><xref href="http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/kafka/3.0.0-DP2/kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0-DP2.zip" format="html" scope="external">kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0-DP2.zip</xref></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Couchbase Kafka Connector 3.0.0 DP1 (6 September 2016)</title>
            <p>Version 3.0.0-DP1 is the first developer preview of the 3.0.x series.</p>
            <p><xref href="http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/kafka/3.0.0-DP1/kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0-DP1.zip" format="html" scope="external">kafka-connect-couchbase-3.0.0-DP1.zip</xref></p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
