<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="cbstats-kv">
	<title><cmdname>kvstore</cmdname></title>
	<shortdesc>Provides low-level stats from the underlying KV storage system.</shortdesc>
	<refbody>
		<section><title>Syntax</title>
			<p>Request syntax:</p>
			<codeblock>cbstats [hostname]:11210 kvstore			</codeblock>
		</section>
		<section><title>Description</title>
		<p>This command is useful to understand various states of the storage system.</p>
		
			<table>
				<title>CouchStore database engine stats</title>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
					<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2*"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Stat</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>backend_type</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Type of backend database engine</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>close</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of database <codeph>close</codeph> operations.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>failure_get</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of failed <codeph>get</codeph> operations.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>failure_open</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of failed <codeph>open</codeph> operations.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>failure_set</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of failed <codeph>set</codeph> operations.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>failure_vbset</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of failed vbucket <codeph>set</codeph> operation</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>lastCommDocs</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of docs in the last commit.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>numLoadedVb</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of Vbuckets loaded into memory.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>open</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of database <codeph>open</codeph> operations.</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Options</title>
			<p>None</p>
			
			
		</section>  
		
		<section><title>Example</title>
			<p><b>Request</b></p>
			<codeblock>cbstats 10.5.2.54:11210 kvstore</codeblock>
<p><b>Response</b></p>
			<codeblock>
 ro_0:backend_type:  couchstore
 ro_0:close:         0
 ro_0:failure_get:   0
 ro_0:failure_open:  0
 ro_0:numLoadedVb:   0
 ro_0:open:          0
 ro_1:backend_type:  couchstore
 ro_1:close:         0
 ro_1:failure_get:   0
 ro_1:failure_open:  0
 ro_1:numLoadedVb:   0
 ro_1:open:          0
 ro_2:backend_type:  couchstore
 ro_2:close:         0
 ro_2:failure_get:   0
 ro_2:failure_open:  0
 ro_2:numLoadedVb:   0
 ro_2:open:          0
 ro_3:backend_type:  couchstore
 ro_3:close:         0
 ro_3:failure_get:   0
 ro_3:failure_open:  0
 ro_3:numLoadedVb:   0
 ro_3:open:          0
 rw_0:backend_type:  couchstore
 rw_0:close:         0
 rw_0:failure_del:   0
 rw_0:failure_get:   0
 rw_0:failure_open:  0
 rw_0:failure_set:   0
 rw_0:failure_vbset: 0
 rw_0:lastCommDocs:  0
 rw_0:numLoadedVb:   0
 rw_0:open:          0
 rw_1:backend_type:  couchstore
 rw_1:close:         0
 rw_1:failure_del:   0
 rw_1:failure_get:   0
 rw_1:failure_open:  0
 rw_1:failure_set:   0
 rw_1:failure_vbset: 0
 rw_1:lastCommDocs:  0
 rw_1:numLoadedVb:   0
 rw_1:open:          0
 rw_2:backend_type:  couchstore
 rw_2:close:         0
 rw_2:failure_del:   0
 rw_2:failure_get:   0
 rw_2:failure_open:  0
 rw_2:failure_set:   0
 rw_2:failure_vbset: 0
 rw_2:lastCommDocs:  0
 rw_2:numLoadedVb:   0
 rw_2:open:          0
 rw_3:backend_type:  couchstore
 rw_3:close:         0
 rw_3:failure_del:   0
 rw_3:failure_get:   0
 rw_3:failure_open:  0
 rw_3:failure_set:   0
 rw_3:failure_vbset: 0
 rw_3:lastCommDocs:  0
 rw_3:numLoadedVb:   0
 rw_3:open:          0
			</codeblock>
		</section>
	</refbody>
</reference>
