<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="spark-working-with-rdds">
	<title>Working With RDDs</title>
	<shortdesc>Spark operates on resilient distributed datasets (RDDs). When you need to extract data
		out of Couchbase, the Couchbase Spark connector creates RDDs for you. You can create and
		persist RDDs by using key-value pairs, views, or N1QL.</shortdesc>
	<conbody>
		<section><title>Creating RDDs</title><p>To get access to the RDDs through the implicit methods
				that the Couchbase Spark connector provides, you need to add the following import to
				your
				code:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-scala"><![CDATA[import com.couchbase.spark._]]></codeblock><p>This
				import adds Couchbase-specific methods to the <codeph>SparkContext</codeph>. Each
				method starts with <codeph>couchbase</codeph>.</p><p>If you want to create an RDD
				for specific documents stored in a bucket, you can specify the IDs directly. The
				connector fetches them from the server and turns them into an RDD:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-scala"><![CDATA[sc
	.couchbaseGet[JsonDocument](Seq("airline_10123", "airline_10748"))
	.collect()
	.foreach(println)
]]></codeblock><p>Because Spark outputs lots of information, you'll find the output somewhere in the
				logs::</p><codeblock outputclass="language-json"><![CDATA[JsonDocument{id='airline_10748', cas=314538279043072, expiry=0, content={"country":"United States","iata":"ZQ","name":"Locair","callsign":"LOCAIR","icao":"LOC","id":10748,"type":"airline"}}
JsonDocument{id='airline_10123', cas=314538278125568, expiry=0, content={"country":"United States","iata":"TQ","name":"Texas Wings","callsign":"TXW","icao":"TXW","id":10123,"type":"airline"}}
]]></codeblock>It is critical that you specify the target document type. Otherwise, the client does
			not know how to convert it. The main reason is that Couchbase has first-class JSON
			support, but is also able to store any data. You can even store serialized objects or
			protobuf-encoded documents, but then you'll loose the secondary indexing
				capabilities.<p>If you are unsure what to pick, stick with the
					<codeph>JsonDocument</codeph>. If you need raw access to the JSON data, you can
				also use the <codeph>RawJsonDocument</codeph>.</p><p>You can perform a (spatial)
				view query to extract rows and turn them into an RDD. Given the following view
				against the <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> bucket: </p><codeblock outputclass="language-javascript"><![CDATA[function(doc, meta) {
	if (doc.type == "airline") {
		emit(doc.name, null);
	}
}]]></codeblock><p>Creating an RDD for the first 10 results works like this:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-scala"><![CDATA[sc
  .couchbaseView(ViewQuery.from("airlines", "by_name").limit(10))
  .collect()
  .foreach(println)]]></codeblock><p>And prints the following:</p><codeblock><![CDATA[CouchbaseViewRow(airline_10,40-Mile Air,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_792,Access Air,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_665,AD Aviation,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_21,Aigle Azur,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_1191,Air Austral,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_139,Air Caledonie International,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_567,Air Carabes,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_149,Air Cargo Carriers,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_16881,Air Cudlua,null)
CouchbaseViewRow(airline_882,Air Florida,null)]]></codeblock><p>If you want to load the full content
				for each document, you can mix both approaches:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-scala"><![CDATA[sc
  .couchbaseView(ViewQuery.from("airlines", "by_name").limit(10))
  .map(_.id)
  .couchbaseGet[JsonDocument]()
  .collect()
  .foreach(println)]]></codeblock><p>Here you can see that <codeph>couchbaseGet</codeph> is not just
				available on the context, but also on every <codeph>RDD[String]</codeph>. Neat,
				right? The exact same approach is also available for spatial views (just use the
					<codeph>couchbaseSpatialView()</codeph> method instead).</p><p>Finally, if you
				are using Couchbase Server 4.0 or greater, you can utilize N1QL to perform efficient
				queries against your JSON data in a Couchbase Bucket. The following query is very
				similar to the one performed before through Views, just to show how the different
				approaches work.</p><p>
				<note>You need to at least have a primary index created on the
						<codeph>travel-sample</codeph> bucket to make the following examples work.
					If you haven't done that already, perform a <codeph>CREATE PRIMARY INDEX ON
						`travel-sample`</codeph> query.</note>
			</p><codeblock outputclass="language-scala"><![CDATA[val query = "SELECT name FROM `travel-sample` WHERE type = 'airline' ORDER BY name ASC LIMIT 10"
sc
  .couchbaseQuery(Query.simple(query))
  .collect()
  .foreach(println)]]></codeblock><p>And if you want to fetch the full document contents based on
				some criteria, here is a little more complex example:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-scala"><![CDATA[val query = "SELECT META(`travel-sample`).id as id FROM `travel-sample` WHERE type = 'airline' ORDER BY name ASC LIMIT 10"
sc
  .couchbaseQuery(Query.simple(query))
  .map(_.value.getString("id"))
  .couchbaseGet[JsonDocument]()
  .collect()
  .foreach(println)]]></codeblock><p>While this gives you the most flexibility with querying, we
				recommend using the higher level Spark SQL components through the DataFrame API. See
				the Spark SQL section for more information.</p></section>
		<section>
			<title>Persisting RDDs</title>

			<p>Creating an RDD is only half the story. After you've done your aggregation, filtering,
				and machine learning, you normally want to persist the results somewhere. Couchbase
				provides the <codeph>saveToCouchbase()</codeph> method on every
					<codeph>RDD[Document]</codeph>.</p>

			<p>The following example extracts all airline names through N1QL, aggregates them by
				country, and stores each list as a separate document. Since RDDs are source agnostic,
				the same approach can be used for example to load data out of HDFS and then store the
				results back in Couchbase.</p>

			<codeblock outputclass="language-scala"><![CDATA[val query = "SELECT name, country FROM `travel-sample` WHERE type = 'airline' ORDER BY name"
sc
  .couchbaseQuery(Query.simple(query))
  .groupBy(_.value.getString("country"))
  .map(pair => {
    val airports = JsonArray.create()
    val content = JsonObject.create().put("airports", airports)
    pair._2.map(_.value.getString("name")).foreach(airports.add)
    JsonDocument.create("airports::" + pair._1, content)
  })
  .saveToCouchbase()]]></codeblock>

			<p>This will create a document in the bucket for each country containing a list of
				airports. For example the document with the ID <codeph>airports::United States</codeph>
				contains this:</p>

			<codeblock outputclass="language-json"><![CDATA[{
  "airports": [
    "40-Mile Air",
    "ATA Airlines",
    "Access Air",
    "Air Cargo Carriers",
    "Air Florida",
    ...
    "United States Air Force",
    "Usa Sky Cargo",
    "Virgin America",
    "Vision Airlines (V2)",
    "Western Airlines",
    "World Airways",
    "XAIR USA",
    "XOJET",
    "Yellowtail"
  ]
}]]></codeblock>

			<p>By default, the <codeph>saveToCouchbase()</codeph> method will use the
					<codeph>StoreMode.UPSERT</codeph>. There are more options available, including
				inserting and replacing (ignoring or failing on error).</p>

			<p>We are also working on better support for automatic conversions from different types so
				that you don't have to map to a specific document type manually.</p>

		</section>


		<section>
			<title>Subdocument API</title>

			<p>If you are running Couchbase Server 4.5 or later, you can use the "subdoc" API to fetch only a
				subset of the fields from a Document. This allows you to reduce network overhead,
				and you need to move less data between operations.</p>

				<p>The <codeph>couchbaseSubdocLookup</codeph> method is available on both the SparContext and the RDD and accepts two/three arguments, depending on the context:</p>

				<ul>
					<li><b>ids:</b> The list of IDs to fetch the fragments from.</li>
					<li><b>get:</b> The paths of the JSON document that should be returned.</li>
					<li><b>exists:</b> The paths of the JSON document that should be checked for existence.</li>
				</ul>

				<p>The following example fetches only two fields from an airline and checks if the <codeph>foobar</codeph> field exists in the document:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-scala"><![CDATA[sc.parallelize(Seq("airline_10123"))
  .couchbaseSubdocLookup(get = Seq("name", "iata"), exists = Seq("foobar"))
  .collect()
  .foreach(println)]]></codeblock>

			<p>This prints:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[
SubdocLookupResult(airline_10123,0,Map(name -> Texas Wings, iata -> TQ),Map(foobar -> false))
]]></codeblock>

			<p>You can then extract the information from the <codeph>SubdocLookupResult</codeph> and use them in your RDD flow. Note that the Couchbase SDK also supports subdocument mutations which will be added to the Spark Connector in a future release.</p>

		</section>

	</conbody>
</concept>
