<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="topic_7_6" xml:lang="en-US">
	<title id="title__Toc272567263">Nested Operators</title>
	<conbody>

		<p>
			<b>Fields:</b>
		</p>
		<codeblock>expression . ( identifier  | escaped identifier [ i ])</codeblock>

		<p>
			<b>Elements:</b>
		</p>
		<codeblock>expression <b>[</b> expression <b>]</b></codeblock>

		<p>
			<b>Array Slicing:</b>
		</p>

		<codeblock>expression <b>[</b>expression : [ expression ] <b>]</b></codeblock>
		<p>Two special operators are needed to access the data because Couchbase documents containing the
			data can have nested elements and embedded arrays. The ‘.’ operator is used to refer to
			children (one level down), and the ‘[ ]’ is used to refer to an element in an array. You
			can use a combination of these operators to access nested data at any depth in a
			document.</p>


		<section>
			<title>Field selection</title>

			<p>The ‘.’ operator is used to refer to children, that is, one level down in a nested expression. </p>
			<p>Nested expressions support using the dot (.) operator to access fields nested inside of
				other objects. The form .[expression] is used to access an object field named by
				evaluating the expression contained in the brackets. </p>
			<p>
				<i>field-expression</i>
			</p>
			<codeblock>expression . ( identifier  | escaped identifier [ i ])</codeblock>

			<p>By default, field names are case sensitive. To access a field case-insensitively,
				include the trailing <i>i</i>.</p>
			<p>For example, if you have the following data:</p>
			<codeblock>{
  "address": {
    "city": "Mountain View"
  },
  "revisions": [2013, 2012, 2011, 2010]
}</codeblock>

			<p> The following expressions all evaluate to <codeph>"Mountain View"</codeph>.</p>

			<p><codeph>address.city </codeph>, <codeph>address.`CITY`i</codeph>, <codeph>address.["ci"
					|| "ty"]</codeph>, and <codeph>address.["CI" || "TY"]i</codeph></p>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Element selection</title>

			<p>Nested expressions also support using the bracket notation ([position]) to access
				elements inside an array. The [ ] operator is used to refer to an element in an array.
				Negative positions are counted backwards from the end of the array.</p>
			<p>
				<i>element-expression</i>
			</p>

			<codeblock>expression <b>[</b> expression <b>]</b></codeblock>
			<p> </p>
			<codeblock>{
    "address": {
    "city": "Mountain View"
    },
    "revisions": [2013, 2012, 2011, 2010]
}}</codeblock>
			<p> In our example, the expression <codeph>revisions[0]</codeph> evaluates to
					<codeph>2013</codeph>. The expression <codeph>revision[-1]</codeph> evaluates to
					<codeph>2010</codeph>. </p>
		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Array slicing</title>

			<p>You can get subsets or segments of an array; this is called array slicing. Here is the
				syntax for array slicing: </p>
			<p>
				<codeblock>source-array <b>[</b> start : end <b>]</b> </codeblock>
			</p>

			<p>It returns a new a subset of the source array, containing the elements from position
					<codeph>start</codeph> to <codeph>end-1</codeph>. The element at
					<codeph>start</codeph> is included, while the element at <codeph>end</codeph> is not.
				The array index starts with 0.</p>
			<p>If <codeph>end</codeph> is omitted, all elements from <codeph>start</codeph> to the end
				of the source array are included.</p>

			<p>Negative positions are counted backwards from the end of the array.</p>
			<p>The general nested expression has the following syntax.</p>

			<codeblock>expression <b>[</b>expression : [ expression ] <b>]</b></codeblock>
			<p>The following example shows a document and expressions with equivalent values.</p>
			<codeblock>{
  "address": {
       "city": "Mountain View" 
  },
  "revisions": [2013, 2012, 2011, 2010] 
}</codeblock>



			<p>The expression <codeph>address.city</codeph> evaluates to the value <codeph>Mountain
					View</codeph>.</p>
			<p>The expression <codeph>revisions[0]</codeph> evaluates to the value <codeph>2013</codeph>.</p>
			<p>The expression <codeph>revisions[1:3]</codeph> evaluates to the array value <codeph>[2012,
					2011]</codeph>.</p>
			<p>The expression <codeph>revisions[1:]</codeph> evaluates to the array value <codeph>[2012,
					2011, 2010]</codeph>.</p>

		</section>

	</conbody>
</concept>
