<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_hgb_31r_dt">
 <title>Entity Relationships and Document Design</title>
 <shortdesc>Logical data modeling starts with a decision on how to map your entities to documents. JSON documents provide great flexibility in mapping 1-to-1, 1-to-many or many-to-many relationships.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>At one end, you can model each entity to its own document with references to represent
   relationships. At the other end, you can embed all related entities into a single large document.
   However, the right design for your application usually lies somewhere in between. Exactly how you
   should balance these alternatives depends on the access patterns and requirements of your
   application.  The topics <xref href="referencing-vs-embedding-docs.dita#concept_ugr_ddr_dt"/> and
    <xref href="modeling-relationships.dita#concept_ol2_khr_dt"/> present a detailed discussion of
   tools for representing relationships and best practices for each type of relationships.</p>
  <p>It is important to note that binary key-value data is better suited for modeling long, narrow
   and mostly uniform data, for example, temperature measurements from an instrument that is
   repeated every few seconds. However, as the sophistication of the entities, attributes and
   relationships increases (larger number of attributes per entity, multilevel, cascading
   relationships, and more) the benefits of JSON documents become much more significant.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
