<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_igs_cyg_1t">
  <title>Monitoring Management</title> <shortdesc>You can manage statistics collection by using different configurations, file locations, and methods.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <section><title>Changing statistics configuration</title> 
      <p>The default Couchbase Server statistics collection is set to collect every second, but can be adjusted to collect statistics less frequently.</p>
      <note type="note">If the statistic collection is changed from the default, the Couchbase
        Server service must be restarted.</note>
      <p>To change statistic collection:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Log in as <codeph>root</codeph> or use <codeph>sudo</codeph> to change the Couchbase
          Server static configuration, which is located at:
            <filepath>/opt/couchbase/etc/couchbase/static_config</filepath> by default.</li>
        <li>Add the parameter <codeph>grab_stats_every_n_ticks, 10</codeph>, where 10 is the number
          of ticks. In the Couchbase Server environment, one tick is one second (default). It is
          recommended that the statistics collection be more frequent (and accurate). However,
          assign an appropriate tick value for your environment.</li>
        <li>Restart the Couchbase Server service.</li>
      </ol>
      <p>After restarting the Couchbase service, the statistics collection rate is changed.</p>
    </section>
   
    
    <section><title>Changing statistics file location</title>
      <p>The default stats file location is
          <filepath>/opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/stats</filepath>. However, if you want to
        change the default stats file location, create a <codeph>symlink</codeph> location to the
        new directory. </p>
      <note type="note">When creating a <codeph>symlink</codeph>, stop and restart the
        couchbase-server service.</note>
      
      
    </section>
    <section><title>Monitoring cluster tasks</title>
      <p>You can use the REST API or Couchbase Server command-line tools to monitor various cluster
        tasks, such as node warmup, rebalance operations, and more. In this section examples for
        retrieving the following per-node operational information from a Couchbase Server cluster
        will be detailed to familiarize you with the resources available to you.</p>
      <p>Example operational information:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Basic node status</li>
        <li>Node warmup status</li>
        <li>Current operations per second</li>
        <li>Rebalance progress</li>
      </ul>
      
      
    </section>
    <section><title>Methods</title>
      <p>As previously shown, The REST API provides a great deal of statistical and performance metric oriented information. 
        You can also gather a 
        wealth of cluster operational information from it as well. 
        The cbstats and couchbase-cli commands can also be used to 
        gather cluster task related information.</p>
      <p>The following are command examples to retrieve the example operational information listed above.</p>    
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Basic node status: Node warmup status
          </dt>
          <dd>You can use the cbstats utility on the node 
            in question to quickly monitor warmup. 
            Here is an example with output showing 
            warmup in progress (note <codeph>ep_warmup_thread: running</codeph>):<codeblock>cbstats localhost:11210 all | grep warmup

ep_failpartialwarmup:               0
ep_waitforwarmup:                   0
ep_warmup:                          1
ep_warmup_batch_size:               1000
ep_warmup_dups:                     0
ep_warmup_min_items_threshold:      100
ep_warmup_min_memory_threshold:     100
ep_warmup_oom:                      0
ep_warmup_thread:                   running
</codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Current operations per second: Rebalance progress
          </dt>
          <dd>Use curl, python, and grep with the REST API to check rebalance status:
              <codeblock>curl --silent -u Administrator:couchbase cb1:8091/pools/default/tasks \
 | python -mjson.tool | grep -A1 -B4 rebalance
        },
        "progress": 83.18109021492943,
        "recommendedRefreshPeriod": 0.25,
        "status": "running",
        "subtype": "rebalance",
        "type": "rebalance"
    },
</codeblock><p>From
              this simplified example, you can see that rebalance is running and is approximately
              83% complete. If you omit the grep command, you can get detailed rebalance progress
              metrics as well.  </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <p>See the documentation for <xref href="../cli/cbcli-intro.dita"
          >couchbase-cli</xref>, <xref href="../cli/cbstats-intro.dita#cbstats-intro"
        >cbstats</xref>, and <xref href="../rest-api/rest-intro.dita#topic_d3j_g5d_54">REST
          API</xref> for further details about using these interfaces into Couchbase Server’s
        operational information.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
