<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_z3r_zgq_44">
	<title>Overview</title>
	<shortdesc>The Couchbase Go SDK enables you to interact with Couchbase Server from a Go
		application.</shortdesc>
	<conbody>
		<p>The Go SDK consists of a native Go library along with various other components, including:</p>
		<ul>
			<li>Go Couchbase client</li>
			<li>Developer guide (you're reading it now!)</li>
			<li>API reference</li>
			<li>Sample applications (<xref href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/beersample-go"
					format="html" scope="external">beer database</xref>)</li>
		</ul>

		<section>
			<title>Architecture</title>
			<p>To debug errors, you must be familiar with the client's architecture to understand where
				problems might originate. The following components participate in typical
				operations: </p>
			<ul>
				<li><p><b>Couchbase Server</b></p>
					<p>This is the server itself, which stores your data. Errors can happen here if
						your data does not exist, or if there are connectivity issues with one or
						more nodes in the server. While Couchbase Server is scalable and fault
						tolerant, there are naturally some conditions that cause failures (for
						example, if all nodes are unreachable).</p></li>

				<li><p><b>gocbcore</b></p>
					<p>This is the core IO handling library powering the Go SDK.  It handles network communication
						and protocol handling between a client and the Couchbase node.  Network
						connectivity issues tend to present themselves here.</p></li>

				<li><p><b>gocb</b></p>
					<p>This is our developer friendly front-end for gocbcore. It interfaces with gocbcore and
						handles marshaling of information between your application and the low-level
						API's available through gocbcore. It also performs input validation,
						encoding and decoding of keys and values and provides a synchronous API for
						use within goroutines.</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Compatibility</title>
			<p>To take advantage of all features offered by Couchbase Server, you need to know what version
				of our Go SDK provides compatibility for the features you want to use. The following
				matrix shows which versions of the client support the major features of each version
				of Couchbase Server.</p>
			<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_qpl_ttq_44">
				<title>Couchbase Server and SDK Supported Version Matrix</title>
				<tgroup cols="5">
					<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="4.39*"/>
					<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="4.29*"/>
					<colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="4.4*"/>
					<colspec colname="c4" colnum="4" colwidth="4.35*"/>
					<colspec colname="c5" colnum="5" colwidth="4.35*"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry/>
							<entry>Server 1.8</entry>
							<entry>Server 2.0</entry>
							<entry>Server 2.5</entry>
							<entry>Server 3.0</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>	
						
						<row>
							<entry namest="c1" nameend="c5"><b>Basic Features</b></entry>
						</row>
						
						<row>
							<entry>CRUD Operations</entry>
							<entry namest="c2" nameend="c5">Since 0.1</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>View Querying APIs</entry>
							<entry namest="c2" nameend="c5">Since 0.2</entry>
						</row>

						<row>
							<entry namest="c1" nameend="c5"><b>Advanced Features</b></entry>
						</row>

						<row>
							<entry>Durability Requirements</entry>
							<entry namest="c2" nameend="c5">Since 0.3</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>Fast (CCCP) Bootstrapping</entry>
							<entry namest="c2" nameend="c3">Not Supported</entry>
							<entry namest="c4" nameend="c5">Since 0.1</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>SSL Connectivity</entry>
							<entry namest="c2" nameend="c4">Not Supported</entry>
							<entry>Since 0.1</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>Transparent Compression</entry>
							<entry namest="c2" nameend="c5">Not Supported</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>Bulk Operations</entry>
							<entry namest="c2" nameend="c5">Not Supported</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>Cross-SDK Data types</entry>
							<entry>Not Supported</entry>
							<entry namest="c3" nameend="c5">Since 0.1</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>N1QL Querying</entry>
							<entry namest="c2" nameend="c5">Since 0.3</entry>
						</row>

						<row>
							<entry namest="c1" nameend="c5"><b>Administrative Features</b></entry>
						</row>

						<row>
							<entry>Administrative API</entry>
							<entry namest="c2" nameend="c5">Since 0.2</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Contributing</title>
			<p>Couchbase welcomes community contributions to the Go SDK. The <xref
					href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/gocb" format="html" scope="external"
					>Go SDK source code</xref> is available on GitHub. If you would like to
				contribute code, read the <xref
					href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/gocb/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md"
					format="html" scope="external">contributor's guide</xref> for details.</p>
		</section>
	</conbody>


</concept>
