<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept1244">
	<title>Quick start</title>
	<conbody>
		<p>To get started, follow these instructions to download and install the tutorial application.
			If you do this, you will have the code set up so you can just follow along as you read
			through the rest of the tutorial.</p>
		<ol>
			<li>
				<p>Download <xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/download" scope="external"
						format="html">Couchbase Server</xref> and install it. Make sure to install the
						<codeph>beer-sample</codeph> bucket when you run the wizard because this tutorial
					application works with it.</p>
			</li>



			<li>Set up the views.
				<p>The <codeph>beer-sample</codeph> bucket might already have these production design documents. If it does, you can skip this step.</p>
				<p>To set up the views manually, open the Couchbase Server administration
					console. In the <codeph>beer</codeph> design document, create a development view
					called <codeph>by_name</codeph>, then promote it to a production view.  Here's the
					JavaScript map function for the view:</p>
				<codeblock outputclass="language-javascript" spectitle="Design document: _design/beer. View: by_name">function (doc, meta) {
    if (doc.type &amp;&amp; doc.type == "beer") {
        emit(doc.name, null);
    }
}</codeblock>
				<p>Create another design document called <codeph>brewery</codeph>, add a view called
						<codeph>by_name</codeph>, and publish it to a production view. Here's the
					JavaScript map function for the view:</p>
				<codeblock outputclass="language-javascript" spectitle="Design document: _design/brewery. View: by_name">function (doc, meta) {
    if (doc.type &amp;&amp; doc.type == "brewery") {
        emit(doc.name, null);
    }
}</codeblock>
			</li>

			<li>Clone the repository:
				<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ git clone git://github.com/couchbaselabs/beersample-go.git
Cloning into 'beersample-go'...</codeblock>
			</li>

			<li> Run the application:
				<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ go run
Starting server on :9980</codeblock>
			</li>
			<li>
				In your web browser, navigate to <xref format="html" scope="external"
						href="http://localhost:9980/welcome" />, and enjoy the application!
			</li>
		</ol>
	</conbody>

</concept>
