<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_cn2_5ck_r4">
  <title>Release notes</title>
  <shortdesc>Release notes for the 1.0 version of the Go SDK.</shortdesc>
<conbody>

  <section>
    <title>Version 1.0.1 (November 17, 2015)</title>
    <p>Version 1.0.1 is the second release of the Go SDK 1.0 0.</p>
    
    <p><b>Enhancements and behavioral changes</b></p>
    
    <ul>
      <li>GOCBC-70 : Fixed the issue related to prepared statement execution.</li>
      <li>GOCBC-68 : Handle deleted buckets properly.</li>
      <li>Fixed the bug related to passing interface pointers to storage methods.</li>
      <li>Various other minor bug fixes.</li>
   
      <li>Added ability to shut down connections.</li>
      <li>Various performance improvements.</li>
    </ul>
  
      
      <p><b>Known issues</b></p>
      
      <ul>
        
        <li>None</li>
      </ul>
  </section>
  
  
  
  <section>
   <title>Version 1.0.0 (16 September 2015)</title>
   <p>Version 1.0.0 is the first GA release of the Go SDK.</p>
    
     <p><b>Enhancements and behavioral changes</b></p>
     
        <ul>
          <li>Support for Couchbase Server 4.0 Enhanced Durability.</li>
          <li>Support for Prepared Statements.</li>
          <li>Corrected issue where an incorrect value type passed to Get would panic.</li>
          <li>Moved package to `github.com/couchbase` rather than `github.com/couchbaselabs`.</li>
          <li>Numerous minor bug fixes.</li>
        </ul>
   
     <p><b>Known issues</b></p>
      
        <ul>
          <li>Mutation Tokens are disabled by default and cannot be
            enabled through gocb (only via gocbcore).</li>
        </ul>
 </section>


 <section>
    <title>Version 1.0.0-beta [0.9.0] (7 July 2015)</title>
   <p>Version 1.0.0-beta is the beta pending our 1.0.0 GA release of the Go
      SDK.</p>
    
     <p><b>Enhancements and behavioral changes</b></p>
    
        <ul>

          <li>Various minor bug fixes.</li>
        </ul>
   
     <p><b>Known issues</b></p>
      
        <ul>

          <li>None</li>
        </ul>
 </section>
  
	
  <section>
    <title>Version 0.3.0 (16 June 2015)</title>
    <p>Version 0.3.0 continues the progression towards a 1.0.0 GA release of our Go
      SDK.</p>
    
      <p><b>Enhancements and behavioral changes</b></p>
     
        <ul>
          <li>Added support for performing bulk operations.</li>
          <li>Added support for N1QL querying.</li>
          <li>Added support for durability requirements.</li>
          <li>Added support for GeoSpatial view queries.</li>
          <li>Numerous performance enhancements.</li>
          <li>Added additional user-oriented error handling functionality.</li>
          <li>Added further options to GetReplica method.</li>
          <li>Added support for specifying various internal timeouts.</li>
          <li>Various minor bug fixes.</li>
        </ul>
      
     <p>
        <b>Known issues</b></p>
    
        <ul>
          <li>None</li>
        </ul>
  </section>
  
  
  <section>
    <title>Version 0.2.0 (9 March 2015)</title>
 <p>Version 0.2.0 continues the progression towards a 1.0.0 GA release of our Go
   SDK.</p>
   
  <p><b>Enhancements and behavioral changes</b></p>
     
        <ul>
          <li>Added support for performing management operations.</li>
          <li>Significant refactoring of the code base to enhance performance and testability.</li>
          <li>Various minor bug fixes.</li>
        </ul>
      
     <p><b>Known issues</b></p>
    
        <ul>
          <li>None</li>
        </ul>
  </section>
  
  <section>
 
    <title>Version 0.1.0 (25 February 2015)</title>
    <p>Version 0.1.0 was the first official release of our Go SDK.</p>
    
  </section>
</conbody>
</concept>
