<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept2677">
	<title>Go SDK Tutorial</title>
	<shortdesc>The Go SDK tutorial introduces some advanced concepts by walking through a complete
		web application.</shortdesc>
	<conbody>

		<p>The full source code for the tutorial is available <xref
				href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-golang/" scope="external" format="html">on
				GitHub</xref>. The primary focus of the tutorial is to explain the function and theory
			behind the Couchbase Go client and how it connects to Couchbase server, and to highlight
			new features in Couchbase version 4.0 such as the N1QL query language. It makes use of the
				<codeph>travel-sample</codeph> bucket that is provided with Couchbase Server. The code
			that generates the web application is provided with the source code, but is not discussed
			in this tutorial. </p>
		<draft-comment>Commenting this out because I don't want to reference back to the old versions
			of documentation.<note type="note">For reference, you can find the tutorial for CB 3.x
				here: <!--<xref href="tutorial3.dita"/>-->.</note></draft-comment>


		<section>
			<title>Prerequisites and setup</title>
			<p>To go through this tutorial you'll need the following: </p>
			<ul>
				<li>Your favorite IDE or editor. The <xref href="https://atom.io" scope="external"
						format="html">Atom</xref> text editor, with the <xref
						href="https://github.com/joefitzgerald/go-plus" scope="external" format="html"
						>go-plus plugin</xref> installed, provides a great Go IDE experience. This
					tutorial is IDE agnostic.</li>
				<li>Go 1.4 or higher. This tutorial was written and tested using Go 1.5.</li>
				<li>The sample app source code from GitHub (this tutorial cover only the Go part of the
					app). The data model and AngularJS front end are explained in detail at <xref
						href="http://developer.couchbase.com/documentation/server/4.0/travel-app/travel-app-data-model.html"
						scope="external" format="html">travel-sample walkthrough</xref>.</li>
				<li>
					<p>A local <codeph>Couchbase Server 4.0</codeph> installation. Make sure that the
						sample bucket named <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> is loaded and that there is at
						least one node with data, query and index services in the cluster.</p>
					<p>If you already have Couchbase Server installed but did not install the
							<codeph>travel-sample</codeph> bucket, open the Couchbase Web Console and
						select <menucascade>
							<uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol>
							<uicontrol>Sample Buckets</uicontrol></menucascade>. Select the
							<codeph>travel-sample</codeph> check box, and then click
							<uicontrol>Create</uicontrol>. A notification box in the upper-right corner
						disappears when the bucket is ready to use.</p>
				</li>
			</ul>


			<p>To run the tutorial app:<ul>
					<li>As long as your <codeph>GOPATH</codeph> environment variable is set up correctly, you
						should be able to install from the terminal by using the following command:
						<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">go get github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-golang</codeblock></li>
					<li>If you don't want to connect to <codeph>localhost</codeph>, you need to change the
						configuration set up in the connection statement in the
							<filepath>try.go</filepath> file (<codeph>cluster, _ :=
							gocb.Connect("couchbase://127.0.0.1")</codeph>. You can use either an IP
						address or a host name in the string.</li>
					<li>Open <filepath>try.go</filepath> (located under
							<filepath>$GOPATH/src/github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-golang</filepath>)</li>
					<li>Alternatively, go straight to running the project:
						<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">go run try.go</codeblock></li>
				</ul>
			</p>
			<draft-comment> No referring back to the old documentation <note type="tip"> This tutorial
					focuses on querying through N1QL rather than views. If you want information about
					using views, see the following resources: <ul>
						<li>General Information about views: <xref
								href="http://docs.couchbase.com/admin/admin/Views/views-intro.html"
								format="html" scope="external">Views and indexes</xref>
						</li>
						<li>Examples and patterns you can use for views:<xref
								href="http://docs.couchbase.com/admin/admin/Views/views-querySample.html"
								format="html" scope="external">View and query pattern samples</xref></li>
					</ul>
				</note></draft-comment>
		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Configuring and bootstrapping the SDK</title>
			<p>Configuring and bootstrapping the SDK involves connecting to the
					<codeph>Cluster</codeph> and getting a reference to a <codeph>Bucket</codeph>. You
				can find the code discussed in this section in <apiname>func main()</apiname> on line
				340–341 in the <filepath>try.go</filepath> file. </p>
			<p>The first step is to let the application connect to your cluster and obtain a reference
				to a <codeph>Bucket</codeph> object. The bucket is your entry point for the whole
				storage API. Both <codeph>Cluster</codeph> and <codeph>Bucket</codeph> should be reused
				across your application. They are instantiated within the <apiname>main()</apiname>
				function so they can be used across the application. </p>
			<p>Import the Couchbase Go client in the import code block:</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-go"><![CDATA["github.com/couchbase/gocb"]]></codeblock>
			<p>Declare a pointer to be used for the Couchbase bucket:</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-go"><![CDATA[var bucket *gocb.Bucket]]></codeblock>
			<p>The <codeph>bucket</codeph> variable is used by various functions within the
				application. The cluster and bucket references are instantiated in <codeph>func
					main()</codeph>.</p>
			<note type="tip">For best results always use a bucket by reference. Declaring the bucket
				variable as a pointer to the Couchbase bucket allows the bucket connection to be used by
				reference. This is extremely important for performance. Applications that spin up,
				execute, and tear down connections for each operation within an application are
				inefficient, resource intensive, cause garbage collection headaches, and are not
				performant. </note>
			<p>The following code snippet connects to the cluster and opens the
					<codeph>travel-sample</codeph> bucket:</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-go"><![CDATA[cluster, _ := gocb.Connect("couchbase://127.0.0.1")
bucket, _ = cluster.OpenBucket("travel-sample","")]]></codeblock>
			<p>From within <codeph>func main()</codeph> we connect to the cluster, and then open the
				database (bucket). This allows us to use sample data from
				<codeph>travel-sample</codeph>. For using secure credentials reference
					<codeph>OpenBucket</codeph> from within the API <xref
					href="http://godoc.org/github.com/couchbase/gocb" format="html" scope="external">docs
				</xref>. </p>
			<p>The application is now ready to use the Couchbase API. To learn more about configuring
				the client and connecting to a bucket, see <xref href="managing-connections.dita"
				 />.</p>
		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Manage users by using the key-value API</title>
			<p><b>Where</b>: <codeph>try.go func loginHandler() lines 262-295</codeph></p>
			<p><b>Goals</b>: Use <codeph>Bucket</codeph>'s Key/Value operations and understand the
				API.</p>
			<p><b>Relevant Documentation Topics</b>: <!--<xref href="documents-basics.dita"/>-->,
				<!--<xref href="documents-creating.dita"/>-->,
				<!--<xref href="documents-retrieving.dita"/>-->,
				<!--<xref href="documents-updating.dita"/>--></p>
			<p>You can find the code discussed in this section in <apiname>func
					loginHandler()</apiname> on lines 262–295 in the <filepath>try.go</filepath>
				file.</p><p>Couchbase is both a document-oriented store and a key-value store (meaning
				it can be used purely as a key-value store, for example for caching, but offers advanced
				document oriented capabilities based on JSON documents, like indexing, views, and N1QL
				querying). This is noticeable in the API, where the methods reflect key-value operations
				(such as <codeph>get</codeph> and <codeph>insert</codeph>) and work with a
					<codeph>value</codeph> interface pointer. Go's built-in JSON support for marshaling
				and unmarshaling is a natural fit for working with JSON documents stored in Couchbase. </p>
			<note type="tip"> The Couchbase Go client always returns a pointer to an interface variable
				for retrieval operations. This greatly simplifies loading results into structs.</note>
			<b>Creating new users</b>
			<p> These are the steps for creating new users: </p>
			<ol>
				<li>Route the HTTP request and check if it's a <codeph>POST</codeph> (new user) or
						<codeph>GET</codeph> (existing user) request.</li>
				<li>Check if a user exists.</li>
				<li>Create a new user with a JSON web token.</li>
				<li>Save the new user.</li>
				<li>Return the JSON web token in a response </li>
			</ol>
			<p>
				<b>Route the HTTP request</b>
			</p>
			<p>Go's built in <codeph>net/http</codeph> package is extremely simple for routing
				requests. In <codeph>func main()</codeph> we route the request to the predefined request
				handler <codeph>loginHandler</codeph>: </p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-go"><![CDATA[http.HandleFunc("/api/user/login",loginHandler)]]></codeblock>
			<p>Within the <codeph>func loginHandler()</codeph>, we can check the request type by
				looking at the request method. The request method is interrogated from a pointer to the
				request itself <codeph>r.Method</codeph>. A <codeph>"POST"</codeph> is a new user. </p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-go"><![CDATA[	switch r.Method {
		case "GET":
			// login request for existing user
			q.User = r.URL.Query().Get("user")
			q.Password = r.URL.Query().Get("password")
			if authenticated:=q.LoginUser(); authenticated==true{
				s.Success=q.Token
				bytes,_:=json.Marshal(s)
				w.Write(bytes)
			}else{
				bytes:=[]byte(`{"failure":"Bad Username or Password"}`)
				w.Write(bytes)
			}
		case "POST":
			// login request for a new user
			_ = json.NewDecoder(r.Body).Decode(&q)
			if exists := q.CheckUserExists(); exists == true {
				bytes:=[]byte(`{"failure":"User exists, please choose a different username"}`)
				w.Write(bytes)
			}
			if created := q.CreateUser(); created == true {
				s.Success=q.Token
				bytes,_:=json.Marshal(s)
				w.Write(bytes)
			}
		}
}]]></codeblock>
			<p><b>Check if the user exists</b>
			</p>
			<p> Now we use the key-value API to determine if the new user we are going to create
				already exists. First we define a variable <codeph>curUser</codeph> from our
					<codeph>User struct</codeph>. </p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-go"><![CDATA[type User struct {
	Type string `json:"_type"`
	ID string `json:"_id"`
	Name string `json:"name"`
	Password string `json:"password"`
	Token string `json:"token"`
	Flights []UserFlight `json:"flights"`
}
]]></codeblock>
			<p>Then from our <codeph>bucket.Get()</codeph> call we pass in a reference to that
				variable. If the user we're trying to create exists, the <codeph>curUser</codeph>
				variable is populated. The function returns <codeph>true</codeph> or
					<codeph>false</codeph> depending on if the user was found. </p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-go"><![CDATA[func (u *UserIntermediary) CheckUserExists() bool{
	var curUser User
	if _,err := bucket.Get(u.User,&curUser); err != nil{
		return false
	}
	return true
}]]></codeblock>
			<p><b>Create a new user with a JSON web token, Step 4 - Save the user to Couchbase, Step 5
					- Respond with the JSON web token </b>
			</p>
			<p>In this step we create a new instance of a <codeph>User</codeph> and assign the fields
				based on the information provided. We also create a new JSON web token based on the
				credentials. Because our <codeph>User</codeph> struct, shown above, is a native JSON
				document, storing this struct into Couchbase is simple. We insert the document into
				Couchbase using the <codeph>Username</codeph> field as the key, and the
					<codeph>User</codeph> struct instance as the value. </p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-go"><![CDATA[func (u *UserIntermediary) CreateUser() bool{
	token := jwt.New(jwt.SigningMethodHS256)
	token.Claims["user"] = u.User
	if encryptedToken, err := token.SignedString([]byte(hashToken)); err != nil{
		return false
	} else {
		u.Token=encryptedToken
	}

	var newUser User
	newUser.Type = "User"
	newUser.ID = "NOT_CURRENTLY_USED"
	newUser.Name = u.User
	newUser.Password = u.Password
	newUser.Token = u.Token
	if _, err := bucket.Insert(newUser.Name, newUser, 0); err != nil{
			return false
	}
	return true
}]]></codeblock>
			<p> After the User is stored, the application responds with the JSON token.</p>
		</section>

		<section>
			<title>A first N1QL query: finding airports</title>
			<p><b>Where</b>: <codeph>try.go func airportHandler() lines 151-181</codeph></p>
			<p><b>Goals</b>: Use N1QL to perform your first <codeph>SELECT</codeph> on Couchbase.</p>
			<p><b>Relevant Documentation Topics</b>: <!--<xref href="querying-n1ql.dita"/>-->.</p>
			<p> In Go, we have a several methods for querying documents in Couchbase. These methods
				operate on views, geospatial views and of course: N1QL. The types within Go are
					<codeph>SpatialQuery, ViewQuery, N1qlQuery</codeph>. For N1QL, the
					<codeph>N1qlQuery</codeph> type is expected. This allows us to wrap a N1QL statement
				in <codeph>N1qlQuery</codeph>, provide query tuning through a <codeph>params</codeph>
				interface. The N1qlQuery is then run by the <codeph>bucket.ExecuteN1qlQuery()</codeph>
				method </p>
			<note type="tip">N1QL is a super-set of SQL, so if you're familiar with SQL you will feel
				at ease.</note>
			<p> Let's issue our first <codeph>SELECT</codeph> query to find a list of airports that
				match a specified search string! </p>
			<p> The <codeph>func airportHandler()</codeph> first builds the query string based on the
				search string provided. We want to search by different fields like FAA, ICAO and to
				convert to all capitals if we're searching by those particular fields. </p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-go"><![CDATA[	var queryPrep string

	switch search := r.URL.Query().Get("search"); len(search) {
	case 3:
		queryPrep = "SELECT airportname FROM `travel-sample` WHERE faa ='" + strings.ToUpper(search) + "'"
	case 4:
		if s:=strings.ToUpper(search); s==search {
			queryPrep = "SELECT airportname FROM `travel-sample` WHERE icao ='" + strings.ToUpper(search) + "'"
		}else{
			queryPrep = "SELECT airportname FROM `travel-sample` WHERE airportname like '" + search + "%'"
		}
	default:
		queryPrep = "SELECT airportname FROM `travel-sample` WHERE airportname like '" + search + "%'"
	}]]></codeblock>
			<p> We'll want to select just the airport name from relevant documents in our
					<codeph>bucket</codeph>. After the query string is built we define it as a query
				statement and then run using <codeph>bucket.ExecuteN1qlQuery</codeph>. There are two
				values that returned from each N1QL query: </p>
			<ul>
				<li>an <codeph>interface{}</codeph> type</li>
				<li>error, if one is returned</li>
			</ul>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-go"><![CDATA[	myQuery := gocb.NewN1qlQuery(queryPrep)
	rows,err := bucket.ExecuteN1qlQuery(myQuery,nil)]]></codeblock>
			<p> We then loop through the results, and return the results in JSON format back in a
				response. </p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-go"><![CDATA[	var airports []Airport
	var row Airport
	for rows.Next(&row){
		airports=append(airports,row)
	}
	bytes,_:=json.Marshal(airports)
	w.Write(bytes)]]></codeblock>

			<note type="tip">N1QL makes use of the backtick ` (sharing the same key as the tilde, on
				Western Keyboards) for escape sequences. Go also uses this for character for escape
				sequences in <codeph>struct</codeph> definitions. </note>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Finding routes by using complex queries</title>
			<p><b>Where</b>: <codeph>try.go func flightPathHandler lines 184-248 </codeph></p>
			<p><b>Goals</b>: Understand complex queries and Advanced N1QL Functionality using JOINS and
				UNNEST</p>
			<p><b>Relevant Documentation Topics</b>: <xref href="querying.dita" />.</p>
			<p>This application also demonstrates complex queries that use UNION, JOIN, and UNNEST
				clauses. The following query that uses a UNION clause to go from human-readable airport
				names for the departure and arrival airports to FAA codes that allow us to search on
				available flights by route. Routes have departure and arrival airport fields defined by
				FAA codes: </p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-sql"><![CDATA[SELECT faa AS fromAirport FROM `travel-sample` WHERE airportname = "Los Angeles Intl"
UNION SELECT faa AS toAirport FROM `travel-sample` WHERE airportname = "San Francisco Intl"]]></codeblock>
			<p>This query constructs the result set of available flight paths that connect the two
				airports:</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-sql"><![CDATA[SELECT a.name, s.flight, s.utc, r.sourceairport, r.destinationairport, r.equipment
FROM `travel-sample` AS r
UNNEST r.schedule AS s
JOIN `travel-sample` AS a ON KEYS r.airlineid
WHERE r.sourceairport = "LAX" AND r.destinationairport = "SFO" AND s.day = 6
ORDER BY a.name ASC]]></codeblock>

			<p>N1QL can do joins on a single bucket or on several buckets. It works as long as the
				foreign key described by an <codeph>ON KEYS</codeph> clause can be mapped to a
				document's key in the joined bucket.</p>
			<p>A powerful feature of N1QL shown in the second statement is the <codeph>UNNEST</codeph>
				clause. It extracts fields within an embedded JSON document within a result set and puts
				it at the same root level as the bucket (so it's possible to do joins on each element in
				this embedded JSON as if they were entries in a left-hand side bucket). </p>
			<p>The <codeph>funcFlightPathHandler()</codeph> method implements the above functionality
				including date verification, calculating flight duration, calculating pricing, and
				returns the response. </p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-go"><![CDATA[func flightPathHandler(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {

      	var queryPrep, queryTo, queryFrom string
      	var fromLon, fromLat, toLon, toLat, dist float64
      	var price, flightTime, weekday int
      	var leave time.Time
      	var row AirportIntermediary
      	var airports []AirportIntermediary
      	var flight Flight
      	var flights []Flight

      	from := r.URL.Query().Get("from")
      	to := r.URL.Query().Get("to")

      	leave,_ = time.Parse(layout,r.URL.Query().Get("leave"))
      	weekday = int(leave.Weekday())+1

      	queryPrep = "SELECT faa as fromAirport,geo FROM `travel-sample` WHERE airportname = '" + from +
      	        "' UNION SELECT faa as toAirport,geo FROM `travel-sample` WHERE airportname = '" + to + "'"

      	myQuery := gocb.NewN1qlQuery(queryPrep)
      	rows,err := bucket.ExecuteN1qlQuery(myQuery,nil)
      	if err!=nil{
      		fmt.Println("ERROR EXECUTING N1QL QUERY:",err)
      	}

      	for rows.Next(&row) {
      		airports = append(airports,row)
      		if row.ToAirport!="" {
      			toLat=row.Geo.Lat
      			toLon=row.Geo.Lon
      			queryTo=row.ToAirport
      		}
      		if row.FromAirport!="" {
      			fromLat=row.Geo.Lat
      			fromLon=row.Geo.Lon
      			queryFrom=row.FromAirport
      		}
      		row = AirportIntermediary{}
      	}
      	dist = Haversine(fromLon,fromLat,toLon,toLat)
      	flightTime = int(dist/averageKilometersHour)
      	price = int(dist * distanceCostMultiplier)

      	_ = rows.Close()

      	queryPrep="SELECT r.id, a.name, s.flight, s.utc, r.sourceairport, r.destinationairport, r.equipment " +
                  "FROM `travel-sample` r UNNEST r.schedule s JOIN `travel-sample` a ON KEYS r.airlineid WHERE r.sourceairport='" +
      						queryFrom + "' AND r.destinationairport='" + queryTo + "' AND s.day=" + strconv.Itoa(weekday) + " ORDER BY a.name"

      	myQuery = gocb.NewN1qlQuery(queryPrep)
      	rows,err = bucket.ExecuteN1qlQuery(myQuery,nil)
      	if err!=nil{
      		fmt.Println("ERROR EXECUTING N1QL QUERY:",err)
      	}

      	for i:=0; rows.Next(&flight);i++ {
      		flight.Flighttime=flightTime
      		flight.Price=price
      		flights=append(flights,flight)
      	}
      	_ = rows.Close()
      	bytes,_:=json.Marshal(flights)
      	w.Write(bytes)
      }]]></codeblock>
		</section>
	</conbody>
</concept>
