<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
	
<topic id="couchbase-editions">
	<title>Couchbase Server editions</title>
	<shortdesc>Couchbase Server is available in several editions: enterprise, community, and open
		source. </shortdesc>

	<body>

		<p>Each edition offers different features and levels of support:</p>

		<dl>
			<dlentry>
				<dt>Enterprise edition (EE):</dt>
				<dd>The enterprise edition represents the latest, most stable, production-ready release.
					We recommend EE binaries for commercial production systems. EE contains some unique
					features that make it the best fit for large production deployments running in data
					centers or in a public cloud infrastructure. These features, which are not available
					in the community edition, are listed in <xref href="#couchbase-editions/ee-vs-ce"
						format="dita" />. Our <xref
						href="http://www.couchbase.com/subscriptions-and-support" format="html"
						scope="external">paid annual subscriptions</xref> for EE include a commercial
					license, technical support with service level commitments via our 24x7 support
					organization, as well as technical support and hot fixes for earlier releases.</dd>
			</dlentry>
			<dlentry>
				<dt>Community edition (CE):</dt>
				<dd>The community edition is best for noncommercial developers, where taking some time
					to figure out or resolve issues doesn’t result in major problems. There are no
					constraints on using these binaries in production systems, but they have not been
					subjected to the iterative test, fix, and verify quality assurance cycle that is a
					part of the enterprise edition release process and do not include the latest bug
					fixes. Documentation, mailing lists, and forums provide support for the Couchbase
					user community to help troubleshoot issues and answer questions.</dd>
			</dlentry>
			<dlentry>
				<dt>Open source project:</dt>
				<dd>The Couchbase Server open source project is a platform for innovation. Couchbase is
					committed to open source development and the open source project continues to serve
					as the foundation for both the community edition and the enterprise edition.</dd>
			</dlentry>
		</dl>

		<p>The following table compares the features available in the Enterprise and Community
			editions.</p>

		<table id="ee-vs-ce">
			<title>Enterprise and community edition feature matrix</title>
			<tgroup cols="3">
				<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="6*" />
				<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*" />
				<colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1*" />
				<thead>
					<row>
						<entry>Feature</entry>
						<entry>Enterprise Edition</entry>
						<entry>Community Edition</entry>
					</row>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry namest="c1" nameend="c3"><b>Software updates and support</b>
						</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Quality improvements</entry>
						<entry>Frequently updated</entry>
						<entry>Several months behind EE</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>24x7 support</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Patches and maintenance updates</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Proactive services</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
					</row>
					
					<row>
						<entry namest="c1" nameend="c3"><b>High availability &amp; disaster recovery</b>
						</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Intracluster replication</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Auto failover</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Rebalance</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Cross data-center replication (XDCR)</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Filtering replication with cross data-center replication</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Rack and availability zone awareness</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Full backup and restore</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Incremental and cumulative backup and restore</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry namest="c1" nameend="c3"><b>Security</b>
						</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Built-in account management</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>LDAP integrated account management</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Encrypted administrative access </entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Encrypted data and query access </entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Encrypted XDCR </entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Auditing</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry namest="c1" nameend="c3"><b>Data access</b>
						</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Data access APIs</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Tunable consistency with queries</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Tunable durability (with persistence and replication)</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>N1QL queries</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Indexing with global secondary indexes (GSI)</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Query and indexing with MapReduce views</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Query and indexing with spatial views</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Native SDKs</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry namest="c1" nameend="c3"><b>System administration</b>
						</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Administration tools</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>REST API access</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Command line tools (CLI)</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Homogenous scale-out</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry namest="c1" nameend="c3"><b>Performance and scaling</b>
						</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Multidimensional scaling and independent scalability</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Homogenous scalability</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table>
	</body>

</topic>
