<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="whats-new">
	<title>What's new in Couchbase Server 4.1 Developer Preview</title>
	<shortdesc>Couchbase Server 4.1 Developer Preview (DP) is an early developer milestone update in the Couchbase 4.x series. </shortdesc>
	<body>
		<p>Let’s take a quick look at what’s new in these freshly released bits.</p>
		<section><title>Optimized query execution with prepared statements</title>
			<p>Prepared execution eliminates the need to parse and optimize frequently executed queries. Many
				applications execute predefined queries with different parameters repeatedly. With
				prepared execution, applications can shave off the time it takes to parse and
				compile an execution plan for these queries. Prepared executions deliver great
				savings in both query latency and CPU cycles required to execute the same query. See
				the section on <xref href="../n1ql/n1ql-language-reference/prepare.dita">PREPARE
					statement</xref> for further details on prepared execution of N1QL queries.</p></section>
		<section><title>Improved latencies with covering indexes</title>
			<p>If you like going faster, covering indexes improve query latency. In cases where the index alone can answer the query, the new covering index optimization eliminates the need to do an additional data fetch. Covering indexes deliver great savings on latency and eliminate the work the data service nodes have to do to execute your query. The improvement in latency is completely transparent to existing applications and does not require you to change your application or your queries if you have the right indexes for covering the query! You can find more information about covering indexes and see samples <xref href="../developer-guide/covering-indexes.dita">here</xref>.</p></section>
		<section><title>Full SQL syntax for data manipulation with N1QL</title>
			<p>Standard SQL syntax delivers a fully programmable surface with not just read-only queries but
				also with data manipulation statements like INSERT, UPDATE, MERGE, and DELETE. The
				new statements deliver the ability to easily bulk update documents through N1QL. The
				following statement discounts all the pricing for products in the category of
				“juices”.
				<codeblock>UPDATE product SET price = price*0.9 WHERE type = "product-juice";</codeblock>
				Product documents can be complex and large. N1QL data manipulation statements
				provide a huge savings in network communication here by sending partial attribute
				updates. The sample statement above also shows how to only send an update to price
				without retrieving the entire product document from the server. You can find more
				about DML statements like INSERT, UPDATE and DELETE <xref href="../n1ql/n1ql-language-reference/statementschintro.dita">here</xref> in the N1QL
				reference guide.</p></section>
		<section><title>Additional platforms certified with Couchbase Server</title>
			<p>Couchbase Server 4.1 DP is also certified to run on Windows 10 and OS X El Capitan platforms.
				4.1 DP also addresses several important bugs that further fortify the 4.0 release.
				Full release notes can be found <xref href="../release-notes/relnotes-41-dp.dita">here</xref>.</p></section>
		<p>	Couchbase Server 4.1 builds on the 4.0 release. You can find all the new capabilities in 4.0 <xref href="whats-new.dita">here</xref>.</p>
	</body>
</topic>
