<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_jbt_4jn_vs">
  
  <title>
    Setting Up Buckets
  </title>
  
  <shortdesc>
    Buckets are logical groups of items, each item consisting of a key and a corresponding value. Buckets
    facilitate the management of the items they contain. By means of the Couchbase
    Web Console, the CLI, and the REST API, you can configure, create, populate, and delete buckets.
  </shortdesc>
  
  <body>
  
  <section>
    <title>
      Buckets and Data
    </title>
    
    <p>
      Couchbase uses buckets for storing data. Once defined, a bucket can have items assigned to it; and
      the bucket and the items can be inspected and edited by means of Couchbase Web Console. Applications, as well as users, can access
      buckets and the data they contain: in both cases, access typically requires authentication; which should itself
      be established by an appropriately authorized administrator.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Three different types of bucket are provided: <i>Couchbase</i>, <i>Memcached</i>, and <i>Ephemeral</i>. Buckets
      of all three types are supported simultaneously by Couchbase Server. When you create a bucket, the type you choose depends on
      the data it is to contain, the source of that data, and the context in which the data will be accessed by users and applications. For
      a complete architectural description of bucket-types, see 
      <xref href="../understanding-couchbase/buckets-memory-and-storage/buckets.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Buckets</xref>. 
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Multiple options are provided for bucket-configuration. These options are all accessible at the time of
      bucket-creation; and a subset remains accessible later, allowing configuration-editing to be performed
      by the appropriately authorized administrator.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      For authorization purposes,
      Couchbase Server provides a system of <i>Role-Based Access Control</i> (RBAC), which assigns different
      levels of bucket-access to defined users. A full account of Couchbase RBAC is
      provided in
      <xref href="../security/security-authorization.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Authorization</xref>.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Note that Couchbase Server provides a number of <i>sample buckets</i>. These are for testing
      only. Sample buckets must be accessed according to the requirements of Couchbase <i>Role-Based
      Access Control</i>: therefore, they should be accessed by a defined user assigned 
      the <uicontrol>Full Bucket Access</uicontrol> role: the user's username and password must
      be specified during access. See
      <xref href="../settings/install-sample-buckets.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Sample Buckets</xref> for more
      information.
    </p>
    
  </section>

  </body>
</topic>
