<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic17798">
  <title>Failover considerations</title>
  <shortdesc>Failing over a node means that Couchbase Server removes the node from a cluster and
    makes replicated data at other nodes available for client requests.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>Because Couchbase Server provides data replication within a cluster, the cluster can handle
      failure of one or more nodes without affecting your ability to access the stored data. In the
      event of a node failure, you can manually initiate a <term>failover</term> status for the node
      in the Couchbase Web Console and resolve the issues.</p>
    <p>Alternately, you can configure Couchbase Server so it automatically removes a
      failed node from the cluster and have the cluster operate in a degraded mode. If you choose this
      automatic option, the workload for functioning nodes that remain in the cluster increases.
      You still need to address the node failure, return a functioning node to the cluster, and
      then rebalance the cluster in order for the cluster to function as it did prior to node
      failure.</p>
    <p>Whether you manually fail over a node or have Couchbase Server perform automatic failover, you
      must determine the underlying cause for the failure. Then set up functioning
      nodes, add the nodes, and rebalance the cluster. Keep in mind the following guidelines on
      replacing or adding nodes when you cope with node failure and failover scenarios:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><p>If the node failed due to a hardware or system failure, you must add a new
          replacement node to the cluster and rebalance.</p></li>
      <li><p>If the node failed because of capacity problems in your cluster, you must replace the
          node but also add additional nodes to meet the capacity needs.</p></li>
      <li><p>If the node failure was transient in nature and the failed node functions once again,
          you can add the node back to the cluster.</p></li>
    </ul>
    <p>Be aware that failover is a distinct operation compared to removing or rebalancing a
      node. Typically, you remove a functioning node from a cluster for maintenance or other
      reasons; in contrast, you perform a failover for a node that does not function.</p>
    <p>To remove a functioning node from a cluster, use the Couchbase Web Console to indicate the node
      that is to be removed. Then rebalance the cluster so that data requests for the node can be
      handled by other nodes. Since the node you want to remove still functions, it is able to
      handle data requests until the rebalance completes. At this point, other nodes in the cluster
      will handle data requests. Therefore, there is no disruption in data service and no loss of data
      that can occur when you remove a node and then rebalance the cluster. If you need to remove a
      functioning node for administration purposes, you must use the remove and rebalance
      functionality and not failover.</p>
    <p>If you try to fail over a functioning node, this can result in data loss because
      failover will immediately remove the node from the cluster. Any data that has not yet been
      replicated to other nodes can be permanently lost if it had not been persisted to disk.</p>
    <p>To perform a failover pay attention to the following:</p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>When performing the automated failover</dt>
        <dd>Automated failover automatically marks a node as failed over if the node has been
          identified as unresponsive or unavailable. There are some deliberate limitations to the
          auto-failover feature.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>When initiating a failover</dt>
        <dd>Whether you use automatic or manual failover, you need to perform additional steps to
          bring a cluster into a fully functioning state.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>When adding nodes after the failover</dt>
        <dd>After you resolve the issue with the failed-over node, you can add the node back to the
          cluster. </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    
    
    <section>
      <title>Choosing a failover solution</title>
      <p>Because node failover has the potential to reduce the performance of your cluster, you
        should consider how best to handle a failover situation. Using automated failover means that
        a cluster can fail over a node without user-intervention and without knowledge and
        identification of the issue that caused the node failure. It still requires you to initiate
        a rebalance in order to return the cluster to a healthy state.</p>
      <p>If you choose manual failover to manage your cluster you need to monitor the cluster and
        identify when an issue occurs. If an issues does occur you then trigger a manual failover
        and rebalance operation. This approach requires more monitoring and manual intervention,
        there is also still a possibility that your cluster and data access may still degrade before
        you initiate failover and rebalance.</p>
      <p>In the following sections the two alternatives and their issues are described in more
        detail.</p>
      <p><b>Automated failover considerations</b></p>
      <p>Automatically failing components in any distributed system can cause problems. </p>
      <p>If you cannot identify the cause of failure, and you do not understand the load that will
        be placed on the remaining system, then automated failover can cause more problems than it
        is designed to solve. Some of the situations that might lead to problems include:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><b>Avoiding failover chain-reactions (Thundering herd)</b>
          <note type="danger">Only one auto-failover is allowed for the Couchbase Server in order to
            avoid cascading failures. </note></li>
      </ul>
      <p>Imagine a scenario where a Couchbase Server cluster of five nodes is operating at 80–90%
        aggregate capacity in terms of network load. Everything is running well but at the limit of
        cluster capacity. Imagine a node fails and the software decides to automatically failover
        that node. It is unlikely that all of the remaining four nodes are be able to successfully
        handle the additional load.</p>
      <p>The result is that the increased load could lead to another node failing and being
        automatically failed over. These failures can cascade and lead to the eventual loss of an
        entire cluster. Clearly having 1/5th of the requests not being serviced due to single node
        failure would be more desirable than none of the requests being serviced due to an entire
        cluster failure.</p>
      <p>The solution in this case is to continue cluster operations with the single node failure,
        add a new server to the cluster to handle the missing capacity, mark the failed node for
        removal and then rebalance. This way there is a brief partial outage rather than an entire
        cluster being disabled.</p>
      <p>One alternate preventative solution is to ensure there is excess capacity to handle
        unexpected node failures and allow replicas to take over. </p>
      <ul>
        <li><b>Handling failovers with network partitions</b></li>
      </ul>
      <p>In case of network partition or split-brain where the failure of a network device causes a
        network to be split, Couchbase implements automatic failover with the following
        restrictions:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Automatic failover requires a minimum of three (3) nodes per cluster. This prevents a
          2-node cluster from having both nodes fail each other over in the face of a network
          partition and protects the data integrity and consistency.</li>
        <li>Automatic failover occurs only if exactly one (1) node is down. This prevents a network
          partition from causing two or more halves of a cluster from failing each other over and
          protects the data integrity and consistency.</li>
        <li>Automatic failover occurs only once before requiring administrative action. This
          prevents cascading failovers and subsequent performance and stability degradation. In many
          cases, it is better to not have access to a small part of the dataset rather than having a
          cluster continuously degrade itself to the point of being non-functional.</li>
        <li>Automatic failover implements a 30 second delay when a node fails before it performs an
          automatic failover. This prevents transient network issues or slowness from causing a node
          to be failed over when it shouldn’t be.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>If a network partition occurs, automatic failover occurs if and only if automatic failover
        is allowed by the specified restrictions. For example, if a single node is partitioned out
        of a cluster of five (5), it is automatically failed over. If more than one (1) node is
        partitioned off, autofailover does not occur. After that, administrative action is required
        for a reset. In the event that another node fails before the automatic failover is reset, no
        automatic failover occurs. </p>
      <ul>
        <li><b>Handling misbehaving nodes</b></li>
      </ul>
      <p>There are cases where one node loses connectivity to the cluster or functions as if it has
        lost connectivity to the cluster. If you enable it to automatically failover the rest of the
        cluster, that node is able to create a cluster-of-one. The result for your cluster is a
        similar partition situation we described previously.</p>
      <p>In this case you should make sure there is spare node capacity in your cluster and failover
        the node with network issues. If you determine there is not enough capacity, add a node to
        handle the capacity after your failover the node with issues.</p>
      <p><b>Manual or monitored failover</b></p>
      <p>Performing manual failover through monitoring can take two forms, either by human
        monitoring or by using a system external to the Couchbase Server cluster. An external
        monitoring system can monitor both the cluster and the node environment and make a more
        information-driven decision. If you choose a manual failover solution, there are also issues
        you should be aware of. Although automated failover has potential issues, choosing to use
        manual or monitored failover is not without potential problems.</p>
      <ul>
        <li><b>Human intervention</b></li>
      </ul>
      <p>One option is to have a human operator respond to alerts and make a decision on what to do.
        Humans are uniquely capable of considering a wide range of data, observations and
        experiences to best resolve a situation. Many organizations disallow automated failover
        without human consideration of the implications. The drawback of using human intervention is
        that it will be slower to respond than using a computer-based monitoring system.</p>
      <ul>
        <li><b>External monitoring</b></li>
      </ul>
      <p>Another option is to have a system monitoring the cluster via the Couchbase REST API. Such
        an external system is in a good position to failover nodes because it can take into account
        system components that are outside the scope of Couchbase Server.</p>
      <p>For example monitoring software can observe that a network switch is failing and that there
        is a dependency on that switch by the Couchbase cluster. The system can determine that
        failing Couchbase Server nodes will not help the situation and will therefore not failover
        the node.</p>
      <p>The monitoring system can also determine that components around Couchbase Server are
        functioning and that various nodes in the cluster are healthy. If the monitoring system
        determines the problem is only with a single node and remaining nodes in the cluster can
        support aggregate traffic, then the system may failover the node using the REST API or
        command-line tools.</p>
    </section>

    <section><title>Using automatic failover</title><p>There are a number of restrictions on
        automatic failover in Couchbase Server. This is to help prevent some issues that can occur
        when you use automatic failover. </p>
      <note type="danger">Only one auto-failover is allowed for the Couchbase Server in order to avoid cascading failures.</note><ul>
        <li><p><b>Disabled by Default</b> Automatic failover is disabled by default. This prevents
            Couchbase Server from using automatic failover without you explicitly enabling
          it.</p></li>
        <li><p><b>Minimum Nodes</b> Automatic failover is only available on clusters of at least
            three nodes.</p></li>
      </ul><p>If two or more nodes go down at the same time within a specified delay period, the
        automatic failover system will not failover any nodes.</p><ul>
        <li><p><b>Required Intervention</b> Automatic failover will only fail over one node before
            requiring human intervention. This is to prevent a chain reaction failure of all nodes
            in the cluster.</p></li>
        <li><p><b>Failover Delay</b> There is a minimum 30 second delay before a node will be failed
            over. This time can be raised, but the software is hard coded to perform multiple pings
            of a node that may be down. This is to prevent failover of a functioning but slow node
            or to prevent network connection issues from triggering failover. </p></li>
      </ul><p>You can use the REST API to configure an email notification that will be sent by
        Couchbase Server if any node failures occur and node is automatically failed over. </p>
      <p>Once an automatic failover has occurred, the Couchbase Cluster is relying on other nodes to
        serve replicated data. You should initiate a rebalance to return your cluster to a fully
        functioning state. </p>
      <p><b>Resetting the Automatic failover counter</b></p><p>After a node has been automatically
        failed over, Couchbase Server increments an internal counter that indicates if a node has
        been failed over. This counter prevents the server from automatically failing over
        additional nodes until you identify the issue that caused the failover and resolve it. If
        the internal counter indicates a node has failed over, the server will no longer
        automatically failover additional nodes in the cluster. You will need to re-enable automatic
        failover in a cluster by resetting this counter.</p><p>Important</p><p>Reset the automatic
        failover only after the node issue is resolved, rebalance occurs, and the cluster is
        restored to a fully functioning state.</p><p>You can reset the counter using the REST
        API:</p><codeblock>&gt; curl -i -u cluster-username:cluster-password \
    http://localhost:8091/settings/autoFailover/resetCount
</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section><title>Initiating a node failover</title><p>If you need to remove a node from the
        cluster due to hardware or system failure, you need to indicate the failover status for that
        node. This causes Couchbase Server to use replicated data from other functioning nodes in
        the cluster.</p>
      
      <note type="important">Do not use failover to remove a functioning node from the cluster for
        administration or upgrade operations. This is because initiating a failover for a node
        activates replicated data at other nodes which reduces the overall capacity of the cluster.
        Data from the failover node that has not yet been replicated at other nodes or persisted on
        disk will be lost. </note>
        
        <p>You can provide the
        failover status for a node with two different methods:</p><ul>
        <li><b>Using the Web Console</b></li>
      </ul><p>Go to the <codeph>Management -&gt; Server Nodes</codeph> section of the Web Console.
        Find the node that you want to failover, and click the <codeph>Fail Over</codeph> button.
        You can only failover nodes that the cluster has identified as being Down.</p><p>Web Console
        will display a warning message.</p><p>Click <codeph>Fail Over</codeph> to indicate the node
        is failed over. You can also choose to <codeph>Cancel</codeph>.</p><ul>
        <li><b>Using the Command-line</b></li>
      </ul><p>You can failover one or more nodes using the <codeph>failover</codeph> command in
          <codeph>couchbase-cli</codeph>. To failover the node, you must specify the IP address and
        port, if not the standard port for the node you want to failover. For
        example:</p><codeblock>```
&gt; ﻿couchbase-cli failover --cluster=localhost:8091\
    -u cluster-username -p cluster-password\
    --server-failover=192.168.0.72:8091
```</codeblock><p>If
        successful this indicates the node is failed over.</p><p>After you specify that a node is
        failed over you should handle the cause of failure and get your cluster back to a fully
        functional state. </p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Handling a failover situation</title><p>Any time that you automatically or
        manually failover a node, the cluster capacity will be reduced. Once a node is failed
        over:</p><ul>
        <li><p>The number of available nodes for each data bucket in your cluster will be reduced by
            one.</p></li>
        <li><p>Replicated data handled by the failover node will be enabled on other nodes in the
            cluster.</p></li>
        <li><p>Remaining nodes will have to handle all incoming requests for data.</p></li>
      </ul><p>After a node has been failed over, you should perform a rebalance operation. The
        rebalance operation will:</p><ul>
        <li><p>Redistribute stored data across the remaining nodes within the cluster.</p></li>
        <li><p>Recreate replicated data for all buckets at remaining nodes.</p></li>
        <li><p>Return your cluster to the configured operational state.</p></li>
      </ul><p>You may decide to add one or more new nodes to the cluster after a failover to return
        the cluster to a fully functional state. Better yet you may choose to replace the failed
        node and add additional nodes to provide more capacity than before. </p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Adding back a failed over node</title><p>You can add a failed over node back to
        the cluster if you identify and fix the issue that caused node failure. After Couchbase
        Server marks a node as failed over, the data on disk at the node will remain. A failed over
        node will not longer be <i>synchronized</i> with the rest of the cluster; this means the
        node will no longer handle data request or receive replicated data.</p><p>When you add a
        failed over node back into a cluster, the cluster will treat it as if it is a new node. This
        means that you should rebalance after you add the node to the cluster. This also means that
        any data stored on disk at that node will be destroyed when you perform this
          rebalance.</p><p><b>Copy or Delete Data Files before Rejoining
        Cluster</b></p><p>Therefore, before you add a failed over node back to the cluster, it is
        best practice to move or delete the persisted data files before you add the node back into
        the cluster. If you want to keep the files you can copy or move the files to another
        location such as another disk or EBS volume. When you add a node back into the cluster and
        then rebalance, data files will be deleted, recreated and repopulated.</p></section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <link href="../tasks/tasks-rebalance.dita"/>
      <link href="../UI/ui-settings.dita"/>
      <link href="../REST/rest-cluster-autofailover-intro.dita"/>
      <link href="../REST/rest-cluster-email-notifications.dita"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
