<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_nzk_yln_vs">
  <title>Failover a Node</title><shortdesc>Full Administrators and Cluster Administrators can failover a node, which means that
    Couchbase Server removes a node from a cluster and makes replicated data at other nodes
    available for client requests.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    
    <p>When discussing failover, keep in mind that each of the three Couchbase Services; Index, Query and Data react 
      slightly different due to their roles for different reasons and may need to be recovered differently. 
      It depends on how you have Couchbase deployed. For example, if you have the services separated on different nodes 
      using Multi-Dimensional Scaling (MDS) you can failover and recover nodes separately. 
      If are mixing the services on the same nodes (e,g, Index, Query and Data on the same nodes) it is a touch more complex, 
      but not much. All three services will be discussed in this section in regards to failover.
    </p>
    
    <p>There are three types of failovers in Couchbase: graceful, hard, and automatic failover. 
      Graceful and Hard failover applies exclusively 
      to nodes running the Data Service. Automatic Failover is for all nodes in the entire cluster regardless 
      of which services are on that node.</p>
    <note type="note">If you have planned maintenance, it is highly recommended that you remove the node(s) in question and rebalance normally. 
      Using the failover functionality is pure for unplanned incidents.
     
   </note>
    <section><title>Failover and the Data Service</title>
      <p>The Data Service in Couchbase Server has the most complex, yet critical failover in the
        cluster as it holds your data. To truly understand what failover is in the Data Service,
        first you need to understand <xref
          href="../concepts/distributed-data-management.dita#concept_cz5_szf_vs">vBuckets</xref> and
        how Couchbase distributes data across the nodes of the Data Service.</p>  
      
      
      
    </section>
    
    
    
    
    
    <section><title>Graceful Failover</title>
      <p>Graceful failover fails over a node from the cluster safely and without data loss after
        all in-flight operations are completed.</p>
      <p>With the <term>graceful failover</term>, all in-flight operations are completed; for example,
        data is written to the node and is transferred to the replica vBuckets. The replica vBuckets
        are promoted to active vBuckets and the active vBuckets on the failed-over node are
        transitioned to replica vBuckets.</p>
      
      <p>Since failover occurs after the replica vBuckets are synchronized with the active vBuckets, 
        graceful failover can take more time than a hard failover.</p>
      
      <p>While the node is being gracefully failed over, you can stop the failover operation. You can
        also restart the graceful failover. When a node is failed over, you can add it back to the
        cluster via delta or full recovery.</p>
      
      <p> The following conditions must be met for graceful failover; otherwise, hard failover is
        used.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>The node must be healthy.</li>
        <li> Each active vBucket on the failed over node must have an equivalent replica
          vBucket.</li>
        <li> At least one (1) complete replica vBucket set must be available.</li>
      </ul>
        <p> For example:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>In a 7 node cluster, if a bucket is configured for 1 replica, only 1 node can be
          gracefully failed over.</li>
        <li> In a 7 node cluster, if a bucket is configured for 2 replicas, 2 nodes can be gracefully
          failed over.</li>
        <li> In a 7 node cluster, if a bucket is configured for 3 replicas, 3 nodes can be gracefully
          failed over. </li>
      </ul>
        <p>Unlike hard failover, graceful failover does not alter the number of active vBuckets.
        However, the number of replica vBuckets can be reduced and they can be unevenly
        distributed.</p>
    
    
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Hard Failover</title>
      <p>Hard failover immediately fails over nodes from clusters. Automatic failover is a hard
        failover.</p>
      <p>During failover, replica vBuckets are promoted to active vBuckets and active vBuckets on the
        failed-over node are transitioned to replica vBuckets. </p>
      <p>After a node is failed over, it can be added back to the cluster via delta or full recovery.
        When a node is added back to the cluster after the failover, the replica vBuckets on the
        failed-over node are resynchronized and promoted back to active.</p>
      
      <p>Topology changes after a failover, such as adding, removing, or failing over a server,
        initiate a different rebalance operation. </p>
      <p>Typically, the hard failover is used when the node is in a bad state. The following
        conditions are usually present:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>The node is not healthy.</li>
        <li>Each active vBucket does not have an equivalent replica bucket.</li>
        <li>No replica buckets are present.</li>
      </ul>
      
      
      
    </section>  
    <section><title>Automatic Failover</title>
      <p>Automatic failover marks a node as failed-over if the node was identified as unresponsive or unavailable.</p>
      <note type="note"> To avoid cascading failures and split-brain scenarios, only one auto-failover is allowed for Couchbase Server.</note>
      <p>There are some deliberate limitations to the auto-failover feature. Here are some automatic failover considerations you should become familiar
        with: </p> 
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Disabled by default</dt>
          <dd>Automatic failover is disabled by default to prevent Couchbase Server from using
            automatic failover without the user explicitly enabling it. Enabling auto-failover will
            enable it for all services except for the Index service. An option is provided in the
            <codeph>InternalSettings</codeph> API to enable also the auto-failover for Index Only
            nodes. This option has effect only when auto-failover is enabled. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Minimum node</dt>
          <dd>Automatic failover is available only on clusters that consist of at least three (3)
            nodes. If two or more nodes go down at the same time within a specified delay period, the
            automatic failover system will not failover any nodes.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Required intervention</dt>
          <dd>Automatic failover will only fail over one node before requiring human intervention to
            prevent a chain reaction failure of all nodes in the cluster. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Failover delay</dt>
          <dd>There is a minimum 120-second delay before a node will be failed over. The time can be
            adjusted, but the software will still perform multiple pings of a node that could be down.
            Software intervention prevents failover of a functioning but slow node or to prevent
            network connection issues from triggering failover.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      
      <p>There are automatic failover policies per service type. The current policies are as follows: </p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Data</dt>
          <dd>Auto-failover Data service node if more than 2 data nodes are in the cluster.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Index only</dt>
          <dd>Auto-failover Index only node if more than 1 Index node is in the cluster.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Query only</dt>
          <dd>Auto-failover Query only node if more than 1 Query node is in the cluster.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <p>For multiple services co-located on one node, the policies are different:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Data + Index and / or Query node</dt>
          <dd>Auto-failover policy is same as for the Data service. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Index + Query node</dt>
          <dd>Both services are treated equally — the auto-failover policy of each service is also
            taken into consideration.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="../security/concepts-rba.dita#concept_ntl_jph_hr"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
