<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_is1_mqk_5s">
  
  <title>File Locations</title> 
  
  <shortdesc>
    By default, Couchbase Server stores <i>data-files</i> (supporting <i>data</i>, <i>views</i>, and 
    <i>secondary indexes</i>) in 
    <codeph>var/lib/couchbase/data</codeph>; with the location of <codeph>var</codeph> varying on
    a per-platform basis. The default data-file path should typically be modified before 
    use in a production-deployment.
  </shortdesc>
  
  <body>
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Default File Paths
      </title>
    
    <p>
      The full default path for each supported platform is shown in the following table:
    </p> 
   
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_uyf_wld_dt">
        <title>Default paths for data-files</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Platform</entry>
              <entry>Default directory</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>Linux</entry>
              <entry><filepath>/opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/data</filepath></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Windows</entry>
              <entry><filepath>C:\Program Files\couchbase\server\var\lib\couchbase\data</filepath></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Mac OS X</entry>
              <entry><filepath>~/Library/Application Support/Couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/data</filepath></entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    
      <p>
        Note that once it has been specified, the data-file path location should not be used to store any
        data other than that allocated by Couchbase Server; since all such additional data will be
        deleted.
      </p>
      
  </section>
    
  <section>
    
    <title>
      Changing the Data-File Path 
    </title>
    
    <p>
      The data-file path cannot be spontaneously changed on a node that is active within a cluster:
      therefore, you should ideally apply the correct, permanent data-file path at configuration-time, prior
      to the node's addition to the cluster. For this purpose, you can use the <uicontrol>Configure Server</uicontrol>
      screen of the <xref href="../install/init-setup.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Couchbase Web Console</xref>, the
      <xref href="../rest-api/rest-node-index-path.dita#reference_ywl_gkf_q4">REST API</xref>,
      or the <xref href="../cli/cbcli/node-init.dita#reference_ggg_d45_ls">CLI</xref>. 
    </p>
    
    <p>
      If you <i>do</i> need to change the data-file path of a node that is already active within a cluster, select
      one of the following options:
     </p>
    
    <p>
      <b>
        Substitute a newly configured node:
      </b>
    </p>
    
    <ol>
        <li>
          Configure a new node, with the correct, new data-file path.
        
          <p>
            <!-- Vertical space -->
          </p>
          
        </li>
      
        <li>
          Rebalance the new node into the existing cluster, and the old node out.
          
          <p>
            <!-- Vertical space -->  
          </p>
          
        </li>
    </ol>
    
    <p>
      <b>
        Reconfigure the existing node: 
      </b>
    </p>
    
    <ol>
        <li>
          Rebalance the node out of the cluster.
          
          <p>
            <!-- Vertical space -->  
          </p>
          
        </li>
      
        <li>
          Use the REST API or the CLI to change the data file-path of the removed node. Note that this
          permanently deletes all previously stored data. Not also that the REST API allows data-file and
          index-file path-settings to be individually changed, whereas the CLI does not.
           
          <p>
            <!-- Vertical space -->  
          </p>
          
        </li>
      
        <li>
          Rebalance the reconfigured node back into the cluster. 
          
          <p>
            <!-- Vertical space -->  
          </p>
          
        </li>
    </ol>
    
    <p>
      You are recommended to use the node-substitution procedure, rather than the node-reconfiguration: since
      node-substitution ensures that cluster-performance is not temporarily degraded. 
    </p>
    
    <p>
      To change the data-file path on multiple nodes within a cluster, repeat your chosen procedure for each
      node.
    </p>
    
    <sectiondiv>
      <b>
        CLI Data-File Path-Change Example 
      </b>
    </sectiondiv>
    
    <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">couchbase-cli node-init -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password --node-init-data-path=new_path</codeblock>
    </section>  
  </body>
</topic>
