<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="mangage-server-groups">
  <title>Managing Server Groups</title><shortdesc>You can place Couchbase Server nodes into logical groupings that correspond to their
    physical distribution, such as grouping by server rack, or by cloud availability
    zone.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>
      <note type="attention">The purpose of server groups is to enable <xref
          href="../architecture/server-group-awareness.dita#concept_exs_rrg_rn">Server Group
          Awareness</xref>. The Server Group Awareness feature is only available in Couchbase Server
        Enterprise Edition.</note>
    </p>
    <p>This section describes how to manage server groups using the Couchbase Server Web Console.
      You can also manage server groups using the Couchbase Server command-line interface (CLI) and
      REST API.</p>
    <p>
      <note>When you initialize a new Couchbase Server cluster, the first node is automatically
        placed in a server group named Group 1. Once you create additional server groups, the
          <uicontrol>Assign Group</uicontrol> field becomes available when adding new server nodes
        to the cluster.</note>
    </p>
    
    <section>
      <title>Adding a Server Group</title>
      <p>To add a new server group: </p>
      <ol id="server-grp">
        <li>Go to <uicontrol>Servers > Groups</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li>Click <uicontrol>Add Group</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li>Enter a name in the <uicontrol>Group Name</uicontrol> field, and then click
            <uicontrol>Add Group</uicontrol>.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section id="section_tkc_dgn_d2b"><title>Moving Servers Between Server Groups</title><p>To move
        a server node from one server group to another: </p><ol id="move-server-grp">
        <li>Go to <uicontrol>Servers > Groups</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li>Locate the server node that you want to move. Click the <uicontrol>move to</uicontrol>
          pull-down menu and select the server group that you want to move the server node to. The
          following message appears: <wintitle>pending move to &lt;Group Name></wintitle>.</li>
        <li>Click <uicontrol>Apply Changes</uicontrol> to confirm the move. </li>
      </ol>After you move a server node to a new server group, you need to rebalance the cluster.
      For optimal Server Group Awareness functionality, you should ensure that each server group has
      the same number of server nodes. See <xref href="rebalance.dita#topic_xsx_1mn_vs"/> for more
      information.</section><section>
      <title>Editing a Server Group Name</title>
      <p>To edit the name of a server group: </p>
      <ol id="ol_ef4_tlf_zz">
        <li>Go to <uicontrol>Servers > Groups</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li>Locate the server node whose name you want to change, and then click <uicontrol>edit
            name</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li>Enter a new name in the <uicontrol>Group Name</uicontrol> field, and then click
            <uicontrol>Rename Group</uicontrol>.  </li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ix1_sfn_d2b">
      <title>Deleting a Server Group</title>
      <p>You can only delete a server group that is empty. Once you have removed all of the server
        nodes from a server group, the <uicontrol>delete group</uicontrol> option will appear.</p>
      <p>To delete a server group: </p>
      <ol id="ol_uqn_clf_zz">
        <li>Go to <uicontrol>Servers > Groups</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li>Locate the server group that you want to delete, and then click <uicontrol>delete
            group</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li>In the <wintitle>Confirm Delete Group</wintitle> window, click <uicontrol>Delete
            Group</uicontrol>.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    
  
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <desc>For more information about how Couchbase Server manages clusters, see</desc>
      <link href="../architecture/cluster-manager.dita"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
  
</topic>
