<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ysk_ycm_zs">
  <title>Using Graceful Failover</title> <shortdesc>Graceful failover fails over a node from the cluster safely and without data loss after
    all in-flight operations are completed.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>With the <term>graceful failover</term>, all in-flight operations are completed; for example,
      data is written to the node and is transferred to the replica vBuckets. The replica vBuckets
      are promoted to active vBuckets and the active vBuckets on the failed-over node are
      transitioned to replica vBuckets.</p>
      
      <p>Since failover occurs after the replica vBuckets are synchronized with the active vBuckets, 
      graceful failover can take more time than a hard failover.</p>
      
     <p>While the node is being gracefully failed over, you can stop the failover operation. You can
      also restart the graceful failover. When a node is failed over, you can add it back to the
      cluster via delta or full recovery.</p>
      
     <p> The following conditions must be met for graceful failover; otherwise, hard failover is
      used.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>The node must be healthy.</li>
        <li> Each active vBucket on the failed over node must have an equivalent replica
        vBucket.</li>
        <li> At least one (1) complete replica vBucket set must be available.</li>
      </ul>
      
     
     
      
     <p> For example:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>In a 7 node cluster, if a bucket is configured for 1 replica, only 1 node can be
        gracefully failed over.</li>
      <li> In a 7 node cluster, if a bucket is configured for 2 replicas, 2 nodes can be gracefully
        failed over.</li>
      <li> In a 7 node cluster, if a bucket is configured for 3 replicas, 3 nodes can be gracefully
        failed over. </li>
    </ul>
      
     
    
    
     <p> Unlike hard failover, graceful failover does not alter the number of active vBuckets. 
      However, the number of replica vBuckets can be reduced and they can be unevenly distributed.</p>

  </body>
</topic>
