<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_s1j_1sk_5s">
  <title>Start and stop on Windows</title><shortdesc>On Windows, Couchbase Server is installed as a Windows service.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>You can use the Services tab within the Windows Task Manager to start and stop Couchbase Server.  
      You will need a power user or administrator privileges, or have separately granted rights to manage services to 
      start and stop Couchbase Server. By default, the service automatically starts when the machine boots.    
      Couchbase Server can be started and stopped via Windows Task Manager, Windows system net command, 
      and Couchbase-supplied .bat scripts.
    </p>
    <section><title>Start and stop using Windows Task Manager</title>
      <p>To manually start the service from the Windows interface:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Open the Windows Task Manager and select the Services tab to open the Services management console.</li>
        <li>Alternatively, select the Start, select Run and then type Services.msc to open the Services management console.</li>
        <li>Locate the Couchbase Server service and right-click.</li>
        <li>Select Start or Stop as appropriate.</li>
      </ol>
      <note type="note">You can also alter the configuration so that the service is not automatically started during boot.</note>
    
  </section>  
    <section><title>Start and stop using Windows system net command</title>
      <p>To start and stop Couchbase Server using net:
        <codeblock> net start CouchbaseServer</codeblock><codeblock> net stop CouchbaseServer </codeblock></p>
     <dl>
       <dlentry>
         <dt>Start and stop using Couchbase-supplied <codeph>.bat</codeph> scripts</dt>
         <dd>The Couchbase-supplied start and stop scripts are provided in the
              <filepath>\bin</filepath> directory of the standard installation: <p>To start and stop
              Couchbase Server, use the scripts located in:</p><p>
              <filepath> C:\Program Files\Couchbase\Server\bin\service_start.bat</filepath></p><p>
              <filepath> C:\Program Files\Couchbase\Server\bin\service_stop.bat</filepath></p>
          </dd>
       </dlentry>
     </dl> 
      
    </section>  
  </body>
</topic>
