<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_tsb_3bl_q4">
  <title>Starting and Stopping Couchbase Server</title>
  <shortdesc>Full Administrators and Cluster Administrators can use the startup and shutdown scripts
    to manually start or shut down Couchbase Server. </shortdesc>


  <refbody>

    <section><title>Start and Stop on Linux</title>
      
      
      <p>Couchbase Server is installed as a standalone application that has a support for
        running as a background (daemon) process during startup by using a standard control script.
        The script is located in <filepath>/etc/init.d/couchbase-server</filepath>. </p>
      <p>The startup script is automatically installed during installation from one of the Linux
        packaged releases (Debian/Ubuntu or Red Hat/CentOS). </p>
      <p>To manually start Couchbase Server using the startup/shutdown script: <ul
        id="ul_ork_dxk_5s">
        <li> For RHEL 6:<codeblock> # sudo service couchbase-server start</codeblock></li>
        <li>For RHEL 7:<codeblock># sudo systemctl start couchbase-server</codeblock></li>
      </ul> To manually stop Couchbase Server using the startup/shutdown script: <ul
        id="ul_bsk_dxk_5s">
        <li> For RHEL
          6:<codeblock># sudo service /etc/init.d/couchbase-server stop</codeblock></li>
        <li> For RHEL 7: <codeblock># sudo systemctl stop couchbase-server</codeblock></li>
      </ul>
      </p>  
      
    </section>
    <section><title>Start and Stop with Windows Task Manager</title>
   
      <p>You can use the Services tab within the Windows Task Manager to start and stop Couchbase Server.  
        You will need a power user or administrator privileges, or have separately granted rights to manage services to 
        start and stop Couchbase Server. By default, the service automatically starts when the machine boots.    
        Couchbase Server can be started and stopped via Windows Task Manager, Windows system net command, 
        and Couchbase-supplied .bat scripts.
      </p>
      
        <p>To manually start the service from the Windows interface:</p>
        <ol>
          <li>Open the Windows Task Manager and select the Services tab to open the Services management console.</li>
          <li>Alternatively, select the Start, select Run and then type <codeph>Services.msc</codeph>
            to open the Services management console.</li>
          <li>Locate the <wintitle>Couchbase Server</wintitle> service and right-click.</li>
          <li>Select <uicontrol>Start</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Stop</uicontrol> as appropriate.</li>
        </ol>
        <note type="note">You can also alter the configuration so that the service is not automatically started during boot.</note></section>
        
      <section><title>Start and stop with Windows System <cmdname>net</cmdname> Command</title>
        <p>To start and stop Couchbase Server using <cmdname>net</cmdname>:
        <codeblock> net start CouchbaseServer</codeblock><codeblock> net stop CouchbaseServer </codeblock></p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Start and Stop with Couchbase-supplied <codeph>.bat</codeph> Scripts</dt>
            <dd>The Couchbase-supplied start and stop scripts are provided in the
              <filepath>\bin</filepath> directory of the standard installation: <p>To start and stop
                Couchbase Server, use the scripts located in:</p><p>
                  <filepath> C:\Program Files\Couchbase\Server\bin\service_start.bat</filepath></p><p>
                    <filepath> C:\Program Files\Couchbase\Server\bin\service_stop.bat</filepath></p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl> 
        
      </section>     
   
  </refbody>
  
</reference>
