<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_rest_views">
  <title>Views API</title>
  <shortdesc>The Views REST API is used to index and query JSON documents.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section><title>Description</title>
    <p>Views are
      functions written in JavaScript that can serve several purposes in your
      application. You can use them to: find all the documents in your database,
      create a copy of data in a document and present it in a specific order, create
      an index to efficiently find documents by a particular value or by a particular
      structure in the document, represent relationships between documents, and
      perform calculations on data contained in documents.</p>
    
    <note type="note">View functions are stored in a design document as JSON. You can use the REST API
        to manage your design documents.</note>
      
      <table>
        <title>Views endpoints</title>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="3.34*"/>
          <colspec colname="col3" colwidth="3.06*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>HTTP method</entry>
              <entry>URI path</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>GET</entry>
              <entry>/[bucket_name]/_design/[ddoc-name]</entry>
              <entry>Retrieves all views design documents.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>GET</entry>
              <entry>/[bucket_name]/_design/[ddoc-name]/_view/[view-name]</entry>
              <entry>Retrieves views.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>GET</entry>
              <entry>/[bucket-name]/_design/[ddoc-name]/_spatial/[spatial-name]</entry>
              <entry>Retrieves spatial views.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>PUT</entry>
              <entry>/[bucket_name]/_design/[ddoc-name]</entry>
              <entry>Creates a news design document with one or more views.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>DELETE</entry>
              <entry>/[bucket_name]/_design/[ddoc-name]</entry>
              <entry>Deletes design documents.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>POST</entry>
              <entry>/internalSettings</entry>
              <entry>Changes the number of simultaneous requests each node can accept.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
