<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_ycn_14b_k4">
  <title>Setting recovery type</title>
  <shortdesc>Node recover type is set with the <codeph>POST /controller/setRecoverType</codeph> HTTP method and URI.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    
    <section><title>HTTP method and URI</title>
      <p>Sets the recovery type to be performed for a node. Recovery options are delta node recovery
        or full recovery. The recovery type for a node is set after the node is failed over and before rebalance. 
        Rebalance is required to apply the recovery.</p>

      <codeblock>
POST /controller/setRecoveryType
      </codeblock>
      <p>The progress of setting recovery type can be tracked just like rebalance. After the data is
        persisted to disk and replicas are up-to-date, the node is put into the failed over state. </p>
    </section>
      
      
      <section><title>Syntax</title>
      
      <codeblock>POST /controller/setRecoveryType
    otpNode=[node@hostname]
    recoveryType=[full|delta]
      </codeblock>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Example</title>
      <p>The following Curl request example sets delta node recovery.</p>
      <codeblock>
curl -u Administrator:password -d otpNode=ns_1@10.5.2.118 -d recoveryType=delta http://10.5.2.54:8091/controller/setRecoveryType 
      </codeblock>
    </section>

      
      <section><title>Response codes</title>
        
        <codeblock>
200       // Request succeeded
400       // recoveryType and/or otpNode could not be understood by the server
404       // The cluster is running in a pre-3.0 compatibility mode and thus 
             cannot satisfy the request
       </codeblock>
      </section>
          


      

    
    
    
  </refbody>
</reference>
