<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="rest-xdcr-adv-settings">
	<title>Managing advanced XDCR settings</title>
	<shortdesc>The XDCR advanced settings can change replication behavior, performance, and
		timing.</shortdesc>
	<refbody>
		<section><title>HTTP method and URI</title><p>The URI endpoints are available to change global
				settings for cluster replications and to change settings for a specific replication
				ID.</p><codeblock>
POST /settings/replications/
POST /settings/replications/[replication_id]</codeblock>The
			global settings for cluster replications are the default values to use if the
			replication level settings are not specified. If the replication level settings are
			specified for a particular replication, they will overwrite the global settings. <p>The
				global settings are used for new replications only: if we change a global setting,
				the existing replications are not affected. Only replications that are created after
				the change will get the updated Global setting. </p><table frame="all"
				id="table_xdcr_settings_uri">
				<title>XDCR URI paths for settings</title>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
					<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.35*"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>URI path</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>/settings/replications/</entry>
							<entry>Global setting supplied to all replications for a
								cluster.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>/settings/replications/[replication-id]</entry>
							<entry>Settings for a specific replication for a bucket.</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table></section>
		
		<section><title>Syntax</title>
			<p>Curl request
			syntax:</p><codeblock>
curl -u [admin]:[password] -X GET http://[localhost]:8091/settings/replication
curl -u [admin]:[password] -X GET http://[localhost]:8091/settings/replication/[replication-id]
			</codeblock></section>
		
		<section><title>Example</title>
			<p>The following example retrieves all replication settings:</p>
			<codeblock>GET /settings/replications</codeblock>
			
			<codeblock>
// Curl example
curl -u Administrator:password 10.5.2.54:8091/settings/replications

// Results
{
    "checkpointInterval": 1800, 
    "connectionTimeout": 180, 
    "docBatchSizeKb": 2048, 
    "failureRestartInterval": 30, 
    "httpConnections": 20, 
    "maxConcurrentReps": 16, 
    "optimisticReplicationThreshold": 256, 
    "pauseRequested": false, 
    "retriesPerRequest": 2, 
    "socketOptions": {
        "keepalive": true, 
        "nodelay": false
    }, 
    "supervisorMaxR": 25, 
    "supervisorMaxT": 5, 
    "workerBatchSize": 500, 
    "workerProcesses": 4
}
				</codeblock>
			
		</section>
		
		<section><title>XDCR advanced settings</title>
		
		<p>The following parameters are used for setting all replications globally or setting a specific replication ID. </p>
		<table frame="all"
			id="table_xdcr_settings">
			<title>XDCR advanced settings</title>
			<tgroup cols="3">
				<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
				<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.1*"/>
				<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="2.29*"/>
				<thead>
					<row>
						<entry>Parameter</entry>
						<entry>Value</entry>
						<entry>Description</entry>
					</row>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry><codeph>checkpointInterval</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Integer (60 to 14400).</entry>
						<entry>Default: 1800. The interval for checkpointing in seconds.</entry>
					</row>
					<!--
					<row>
						<entry><codeph>connectionTimeout</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Integer (10 to 10000)</entry>
						<entry>Default: 180.</entry>
					</row> -->
					<row>
						<entry><codeph>docBatchSizeKb</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Integer (10 to 10000)</entry>
						<entry>Default: 2048. The size of a batch in KB.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><codeph>failureRestartInterval</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Integer (1 to 300)</entry>
						<entry>Default: 10. The number of seconds to wait after a failure before restarting
								replication.</entry>
					</row>
					
					
				<!--	<row>
						<entry><codeph>httpConnections</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Integer (1 to 100)</entry>
						<entry>Default: 20. The number of maximum simultaneous HTTP connections used.</entry>
					</row> -->
					
				<row>
					<entry><codeph>logLevel</codeph> <codeph>log.LogLevel</codeph></entry>
					<entry>String</entry>
					<entry>Default: <codeph>Info</codeph>. The level of logging, such as
									<codeph>Error</codeph>/<codeph>Info</codeph>/<codeph>Debug</codeph>/<codeph>Trace</codeph>.</entry>
				</row>	
					
					
					
					
					<!-- <row>
						<entry><codeph>maxConcurrentReps</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Integer (2 to 256)</entry>
						<entry>Default: 16. Web console equivalent: XDCR Max Replications per
							Bucket.</entry>
					</row> -->
					<row>
						<entry><codeph>optimisticReplicationThreshold</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Integer (0 to (20*1024*1024))</entry>
						<entry>Default: 256.  Documents with sizes less than this threshold (in bytes) will be
								replicated optimistically.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><codeph>pauseRequested</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Boolean (true or false)</entry>
						<entry>Shows whether the replications needs to be paused.</entry>
					</row>
					
					
					<!--<row>
						<entry><codeph>retriesPerRequest</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Integer (1 to 100)</entry>
						<entry>Default: 2</entry>
					</row> -->
					<!--<row>
						<entry><codeph>socketOptions</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Term. </entry>
						<entry>Additional parameters are <codeph>keepalive</codeph> (<codeph>true</codeph> or
									<codeph>false</codeph>) and <codeph>nodelay</codeph>
									(<codeph>false</codeph> or <codeph>true</codeph>).</entry>
					</row> -->
					
					<row>
						<entry><codeph>sourceNozzlePerNode</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Integer (1-100)</entry>
						<entry>The number of nozzles that can be used for this replication per source cluster node.
								This together with <codeph>target_nozzle_per_node</codeph> controls
								the parallelism of the replication. </entry>	
					</row>	
					
					<row>
						<entry><codeph>statsInterval</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Integer (200-600000)</entry>
						<entry>Default: 1000. The interval (in milliseconds) for statistics updates.</entry>
					</row>
					
					
					
					
					
					<!--<row>
						<entry><codeph>supervisorMaxR</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Integer (1 to 1000)</entry>
						<entry>Default: 25</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><codeph>supervisorMaxT</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Integer (1 to 1000)</entry>
						<entry>Default: 5</entry>
					</row> -->
					
					<row>
						<entry><codeph>targetNozzlePerNode</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Integer (1-100)</entry>
						<entry>The number of outgoing nozzles per target node. This together with
									<codeph>source_nozzle_per_node</codeph> controls the parallelism
								of the replication. </entry>	
					</row>	
					<!--<row>
						<entry><codeph>workerProcesses</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Integer (1 to 128)</entry>
						<entry>Default: 4. Web console equivalent: XDCR Workers per Replication. The number of worker
								processes for each vBucket replicator in XDCR. This setting is
								available with memcached or REST. </entry>
					</row> -->
					<row>
						<entry><codeph>workerBatchSize</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Integer (500 to 10000)</entry>
						<entry>Default: 500. The number of mutations in a batch.</entry>
					</row>
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table>
		</section>


	</refbody>

</reference>
