<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="rest-cluster-disable-query">
  <title>Disabling consistent query results on rebalance</title>
  <shortdesc>Ensuring query results consistency is performed with the <codeph>POST /internalSettings -d indexAwareRebalanceDisabled</codeph> HTTP method, URI, and parameter.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    
    <section>
      <title>Description</title>
      <p>If queries are performed during rebalance, this setting ensures that query results are
        consistent with the original bucket and data organization prior to rebalancing. In other
        words, the query results reflect the data on an original node prior to rebalance rather than
        data on a node after rebalance started. By default, this functionality is enabled.</p>
      <note type="note">Be aware that rebalance may take significantly more time if you implemented
        views for indexing and querying. If rebalance time becomes a critical factor for your
        application, this feature can be disabled, however, it is not recommend. Do not disable this
        functionality for production applications without thorough testing. To do so may lead to
        unpredictable query results during rebalance. </note>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>HTTP method and URI</title>
      <codeblock>POST /internalSettings -d indexAwareRebalanceDisabled</codeblock>
    
    
    </section>

    
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <p>Curl request syntax:</p>
      <codeblock>curl -v -u [admin]:[password] -X POST
  http://[localhost]:8091/internalSettings
  -d indexAwareRebalanceDisabled=[true | false] </codeblock>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Example</title>
      <p>Curl request example to disable this feature:</p>
      <codeblock>curl -v -u Administrator:password -X POST \  
http://10.5.2.54:8091/internalSettings \
-d &apos;indexAwareRebalanceDisabled=true&apos;</codeblock>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Response</title>
      <codeblock>HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json</codeblock>
    </section>

  </refbody>
  
</reference>
