<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!---->
<reference id="rest-user-create">
  <title>Create a Read-Only Administrator</title>
  <shortdesc>Only the Full Administrator can create Read-only Administrators using the <codeph>POST /settings/readOnlyUser</codeph> HTTP
    method and URI. </shortdesc> 

  <refbody>
    
    <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>To create a read-only user, specify the username and password. 
        Administrative access is required to create a read-only user.</p>
      
      <note type="note">A <codeph>username</codeph> is a UTF-8 string that does not contain spaces, control
        characters or any of these characters: ()&lt;&gt;@,;:\"/[]?={} characters. 
        Passwords must be UTF-8 with no control characters and must be at least six characters long. </note>  
    </section>
    
    
    <section><title>HTTP Method and URI</title>
      <p>The read-only user is created using the <codeph>username</codeph> and
          <codeph>password</codeph> parameters (mandatory). The <codeph>just_validate=1</codeph>
        parameter validates the username and password for the read-only user.</p>
      
      <codeblock>POST /settings/readOnlyUser</codeblock>
      
      <p>Parameters:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>username</li>
        <li>password</li>
        <li>just_validate (optional)</li>
      </ul>
      
      <p>The endpoint has one additional, optional parameter <codeph>just_validate=1</codeph>. 
        If the <codeph>just_validate=1</codeph> parameter is specified, the server does not create the user.  
        Instead the username and password for the read-only user is validated.</p>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <p>Basic syntax:</p>
      <codeblock>POST /settings/readOnlyUser 
	-d username=[username] 
	-d password=[password] </codeblock>
      
      <p>Curl request syntax:</p>
      <codeblock>curl -X POST -u [admin]:[password] 
  http://[localhost]:8091/settings/readOnlyUser 
  -d username=[username] 
  -d password=[password] </codeblock>
      </section>
    
    <section><title>Example</title>
      <p>Curl request example:</p>
      <codeblock>curl -X POST -u Administrator:password \ 
  http://10.5.2.117:8091/settings/readOnlyUser \ 
  -d &apos;username=a_user&apos; \ 
  -d &apos;password=password1&apos;</codeblock>
      
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Response</title>
      <p>If successful, no response displays. </p>
      <codeblock>[]</codeblock>
      
      <p>To verify that you created a read-only, 
        retrieve the user name with <codeph>GET /settings/readOnlyAdminName</codeph> HTTP method and URI.</p>
    </section>
    
    
  </refbody>
  <related-links>
    <link href="../security/concepts-rba.dita#concept_ntl_jph_hr"/>
  </related-links>
</reference>
