<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_rest_buckets">
  <title>Buckets API</title>
    <shortdesc>The Buckets REST API creates, deletes, flushes, and retrieves information about
    buckets and bucket operations.</shortdesc>
  
  <refbody>
    <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>The bucket management and configuration REST API endpoints provide a fine level of
        control over the individual buckets in the cluster, their configuration, and specific
        operations.</p>
    <table>
      <title>Bucket endpoints</title>
      <tgroup cols="4">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2.93*"/>
          <colspec colname="col3" colwidth="1.74*"/>
          <colspec colname="col4" colwidth="1.56*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>HTTP method</entry>
              <entry>URI path</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
              <entry>Admin Role</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>GET</entry>
              <entry><filepath>/pools/default/buckets</filepath></entry>
              <entry>Retrieves all bucket and bucket operations information from a cluster.</entry>
              <entry>Full, Cluster, Bucket*</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>GET</entry>
              <entry><filepath>/pools/default/buckets/default</filepath></entry>
              <entry>Retrieves information for a single bucket associated with a cluster.</entry>
              <entry>Full, Cluster, Bucket*, Bucket A</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>GET</entry>
              <entry><filepath>/pools/default/buckets/[bucket_name]/stats</filepath></entry>
              <entry>Retrieves bucket statistics for a specific bucket.</entry>
              <entry>Full, Cluster, Bucket*, Bucket A</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>POST</entry>
              <entry><filepath>/pools/default/buckets</filepath></entry>
              <entry>Creates a new Couchbase bucket.</entry>
              <entry>Full, Cluster</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>DELETE</entry>
              <entry><filepath>/pools/default/buckets/[bucket_name]</filepath></entry>
              <entry>Deletes a specific bucket.</entry>
              <entry>Full, Cluster</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>POST</entry>
              <entry><filepath>/pools/default/buckets/default/ \
                controller/doFlush</filepath></entry>
              <entry>Flushes a specific bucket.</entry>
              <entry>Full, Cluster, Bucket*, Bucket A</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
    </table>
     <note type="important">"Bucket A" represents a bucket administrator for a single bucket, and
        Bucket* a bucket administrator with privileges for all buckets in the cluster.</note> 
    </section>
    
  </refbody> 
  
</reference>
