<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="rest-views-requests">
  <title>Limiting views requests</title>
  <shortdesc>To limit the number of simultaneous view request on a server node, use the <codeph>POST /internalSettings</codeph> HTTP method and URI 
    and a port-related request parameter.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    
    <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>Couchbase Server provides limits to incoming connections on a server node. 
        The limits are to prevent the server from becoming overwhelmed. 
        When a limit is exceeded, the server rejects the incoming connection, 
      responds with a 503 HTTP status code, and sets the HTTP Retry-After header.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>If the request is made to a REST port, the response body provides the
          reason for the rejection.</li>
        <li>If the request is made on a CAPI port, such as a views
          request, the server responds with a JSON object with error and reason fields.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>HTTP method and URI</title>
      <codeblock>POST /internalSettings</codeblock>
      
      
      <p>Parameters:</p>
      <p>The following are port-related request parameters:</p>
      <p>By default, these settings do not have a limit. </p>
      <ul>
        <li>restRequestLimit
          <p>Maximum number of simultaneous connections each server node accepts on a REST port. 
            Diagnostic-related requests and <codeph>/internalSettings</codeph> requests are not counted in this limit.</p></li>
        <li>capiRequestLimit
          <p>Maximum number of simultaneous connections each server node accepts on a CAPI port. 
            This port is used for XDCR and views connections.</p></li>
        <li>dropRequestMemoryThresholdMiB
          <p>Value in MB. The maximum amount of memory that is used by Erlang VM. 
            If the amount is exceeded, the server starts dropping incoming connections.</p></li>
      </ul>

        <note type="important">Keep the default setting unless you experience issues with too many requests impacting a node. 
        If these thresholds are set too low, too many requests are rejected by the server, 
        including requests from the Couchbase web console.</note>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <p>Curl request syntax:</p>
      <codeblock>curl -X POST -u [admin]:[password]
  http://[localhost]:8091/internalSettings 
  -d capiRequestLimit=[value]</codeblock>

    </section>
    
    <section><title>Example</title>
      <p>Curl request example:</p>
      <p>The following example limits the number of simultaneous views requests and internal XDCR requests which can be made on a port.</p>
      <codeblock>curl -X POST -u Administrator:password 
  http://10.5.2.117:8091/internalSettings 
  -d capiRequestLimit=50
  -d restRequestLimit=50</codeblock>

    </section>
    
    <section><title>Response</title>
      <p>No response is returned with a curl request changing the rest or capi request limit.  
      Retrieve the internal settings to see changes.</p>
      
      <p>The following example retrieves and shows the internal settings with the rest and capi request limits set to 50:</p>
      <codeblock>curl -u Administrator:password http://10.5.2.117:8091/internalSettings
        
        
{
    "capiRequestLimit": 50, 
    "dropRequestMemoryThresholdMiB": "", 
    "indexAwareRebalanceDisabled": false, 
    "maxBucketCount": 10, 
    "maxParallelIndexers": 6, 
    "maxParallelReplicaIndexers": 2, 
    "rebalanceIgnoreViewCompactions": false, 
    "rebalanceIndexPausingDisabled": false, 
    "rebalanceIndexWaitingDisabled": false, 
    "rebalanceMovesBeforeCompaction": 64, 
    "rebalanceMovesPerNode": 1, 
    "restRequestLimit": 50, 
    "xdcrAnticipatoryDelay": 0, 
    "xdcrCheckpointInterval": 1800, 
    "xdcrDocBatchSizeKb": 2048, 
    "xdcrFailureRestartInterval": 30, 
    "xdcrMaxConcurrentReps": 32, 
    "xdcrOptimisticReplicationThreshold": 256, 
    "xdcrWorkerBatchSize": 500
}
      </codeblock>
    </section>

    
  </refbody>
  
  
  
</reference>
