<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_vwm_2g2_gw">
  
  <title>
    Auditing API
  </title>
    <shortdesc>
      Couchbase Server APIs for audit management.
    </shortdesc>
  
  <body>
    
    <codeblock>GET settings/audit</codeblock>
    
    <p>
      Returns information about the audit settings.
    </p>
    
    <codeblock>POST settings/audit</codeblock>
    
    <section>
      
      <title>
        GET /settings/audit
      </title>
      
      <p>
        <b>Description</b>
      </p>
      
      <p>
        This command retrieves information about the audit settings.
      </p>
      
      <p>
        <b>Syntax:</b>
      </p>

      <codeblock>curl -X GET -u Administrator:password http://127.0.0.1:8091/settings/audit</codeblock>
      
    </section>
    
    <section>
      
      <title>
        POST /settings/audit
      </title>
      
      <p>
        <b>Description</b>
      </p>
      
      <p>
        This command configures the audit settings.
      </p>
      
      <p>
        <b>Syntax:</b>
      </p>
      
      <p>
        <codeblock>curl -X POST -d auditdEnabled=true -u Administrator:password  http://127.0.0.1:8091/settings/audit</codeblock>
        
      Enable audit. The value of <codeph>auditdEnabled</codeph> can be either <codeph>true</codeph> or <codeph>false</codeph>.
      
      </p>
      
      <p>
        <codeblock>curl -X POST -d logPath='/opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/logs' \
-u Administrator:password http://127.0.0.1:8091/settings/audit</codeblock>
        
        Set the location for audit logs. The default location on Linux is <filepath>/opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/logs</filepath>. 
      </p>
      
      
      <p>
        <codeblock>curl -X POST -d rotateInterval=582300  -u Administrator:password http://127.0.0.1:8091/settings/audit</codeblock>
        
        Specify the time to elapse between log-rotations. The value of <codeph>rotateInterval</codeph> must be a number of
        whole minutes, expressed as seconds: therefore, the specified number must be a multiple of 60. The acceptable range 
        is 900 (15 minutes) to 604800 (7 days), inclusive.
      </p>
      
    </section>
    
  </body>
  
  <related-links>
    <link href="../security/security-auditing.dita#topic_a5p_npm_lq"/>
    <link href="../clustersetup/ui-logs.dita#topic180"/>
  </related-links>

</topic>





