<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="rest-ddocs-get">
  <title>Getting design doc information</title>
  <shortdesc>To retrieve a design document, use the <codeph>GET /bucket/_design/[ddoc-name]</codeph>
    HTTP method and URI on the <codeph>8092</codeph> port.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>To obtain an existing design document from a bucket, 
        use the <codeph>8092</codeph> port and <codeph>GET /bucket/_design/[ddoc-name]</codeph> HTTP method 
        URI ending with the design document name.</p>
      
      <p>To retrieve all design documents in a cluster use the <codeph>8091</codeph> port with the 
        <codeph>/pools/default/buckets/[bucket-name]/ddocs</codeph> URI.</p> 
      
      
      
    </section>
    
    <section><title>HTTP method and URI</title>
      <p>To retrieve all the design documents with views or spatial views defined on a bucket:</p> 
      <codeblock>GET /[bucket-name]/_design/[ddoc-name]
GET /[bucket-name]/_design/[ddoc-name]/_spatial/[spatial-name]     </codeblock>
 
      
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2"/>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><b>Request Data</b></entry>
              <entry>Design document definition (JSON)</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><b>Response Data</b></entry>
              <entry>Success and stored design document ID</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><b>Authentication Required</b></entry>
              <entry>optional</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      
     
      
      <p>Parameters:</p>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <p>Curl request syntax:</p>
      <codeblock>curl -u [admin]:[password] -X GET 
  http://[localhost]:8092/[bucket-name]/_design/[ddoc-name]</codeblock>
      
      <note type="note">HTTP response header includes a JSON document containing the metadata about the
        design document being accessed. The information is returned within the
        <codeph>X-Couchbase-Meta</codeph> header of the returned data. 
        This information is retrieved by using the <codeph>-v</codeph> option to the
        <codeph>curl</codeph> command.</note>
      
      <p>To get design document information from the cluster, the following request is made on the
          <codeph>8091</codeph> port.</p>
      <codeblock>curl -u [admin]:[password] -X GET 
  http://[localhost]:8091/pools/default/buckets/[bucket-name]/ddocs</codeblock>
      

    </section>
    
    <section><title>Examples</title>
      <p>Curl request example:</p>
      <note type="important">To retrieve design doc information, the request must be made on the <codeph>8092</codeph> port.</note>
      
      <p>To get the existing design document from the bucket <codeph>test2</codeph>
        for the development design document <codeph>ruth</codeph> and the view <codeph>ruthView</codeph></p>
      
      <codeblock>curl -u Administrator:password -X GET 
  http://10.5.2.117:8092/test2/_design/dev_ruth</codeblock>
      
      <p>To get design document information from the cluster, the request must be made on the <codeph>8091</codeph> port.</p>
      <codeblock>curl -u Administrator:password -X GET 
  http://10.5.2.117:8091/pools/default/buckets/test2/ddocs</codeblock>
      
      
      
      
    

    </section>
    
    <section><title>Response</title>
      <p>Response for the following example on the bucket <codeph>test2</codeph> and the development
        design doc <codeph>dev_ruth</codeph>. The design document is empty because no data was
        added.</p>
      <codeblock>curl -u Administrator:password -X GET 
  http://10.5.2.117:8092/test2/_design/dev_ruth</codeblock>
      <codeblock>{
    "views": {
        "ruthView": {
            "map": "function (doc, meta) {\n  emit(meta.id, null);\n}"
        }
    }
}</codeblock>
      
      <p>Response for the following request on the bucket <codeph>test2</codeph>.</p>
      <codeblock>curl -u Administrator:password -X GET 
  http://10.5.2.117:8091/pools/default/buckets/test2/ddocs</codeblock>
      <codeblock>{
    "rows": [
        {
            "controllers": {
                "compact": "/pools/default/buckets/test2/ddocs/_design%2Fdev_ruth/controller/compactView", 
                "setUpdateMinChanges": "/pools/default/buckets/test2/ddocs/_design%2Fdev_ruth/controller/setUpdateMinChanges"
            }, 
            "doc": {
                "json": {
                    "views": {
                        "ruthView": {
                            "map": "function (doc, meta) {\n  emit(meta.id, null);\n}"
                        }
                    }
                }, 
                "meta": {
                    "id": "_design/dev_ruth", 
                    "rev": "1-9bdf8353"
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
      </codeblock>
      
      <p>The following response shows that the metadata matches the corresponding metadata for a data document.</p>
      <codeblock>
      * About to connect() to 192.168.0.77 port 8092 (#0)
      *   Trying 192.168.0.77...
      % Total    % Received % Xferd  Average Speed   Time    Time     Time  Current
      Dload  Upload   Total   Spent    Left  Speed
      0     0    0     0    0     0      0      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--     0* connected
      * Connected to 192.168.0.77 (192.168.0.77) port 8092 (#0)
      * Server auth using Basic with user 'Administrator'
      &gt; GET /sales/_design/something HTTP/1.1
      &gt; Authorization: Basic QWRtaW5pc3RyYXRvcjpUYW1zaW4=
      &gt; User-Agent: curl/7.24.0 (x86_64-apple-darwin12.0) libcurl/7.24.0 OpenSSL/0.9.8r zlib/1.2.5
      &gt; Host: 192.168.0.77:8092
      &gt; Accept: */*
      &gt; Content-Type: application/json
      &gt;
      &lt; HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      &lt; X-Couchbase-Meta: {"id":"_design/dev_sample","rev":"5-2785ea87","type":"json"}
      &lt; Server: MochiWeb/1.0 (Any of you quaids got a smint?)
      &lt; Date: Mon, 13 Aug 2012 10:45:46 GMT
      &lt; Content-Type: application/json
      &lt; Content-Length: 159
      &lt; Cache-Control: must-revalidate
      &lt;
      { [data not shown]
      100   159  100   159    0     0  41930      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:-- 53000
      * Connection #0 to host 192.168.0.77 left intact
      * Closing connection #0
      </codeblock>
      
      <p>If the view does not exist, the following error is returned:</p>
      <codeblock>{
   "error":"not_found",
   "reason":"missing"
}</codeblock>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Response codes</title>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2.85*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Response codes</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>200</entry>
              <entry>Request completed successfully.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>401</entry>
              <entry>The item requested was not available using the supplied
                authorization, or authorization was not supplied.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>404</entry>
              <entry>The requested content could not be found. The returned content
                includes further information, as a JSON object, if available.</entry>
            </row>
            
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
