<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="rest-bucket-ejection">
  <title>Setting metadata ejection</title>
  <shortdesc>Bucket ejection from memory is set with <codeph>POST
      /pools/default/buckets/default</codeph> HTTP method and URI.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section><title>HTTP method and URI</title>
      <p> To set the metadata ejection policy, use the <codeph>evictionPolicy</codeph> parameter.
        Default: valueOnly</p>
      <codeblock>POST /pools/default/buckets/default</codeblock>
      
      
      <p>Value-only ejection (the default) removes the data from cache but keeps all keys and metadata fields for non-resident items. 
      When the value bucket ejection occurs, the item's value is reset. 
      Full metadata ejection removes all data including keys, metadata, and key-values from cache for non-resident items. 
      Full metadata ejection reduces RAM requirement for large buckets.</p>
      
      <note type="important">When editing bucket properties, be sure to specify all bucket
        properties. If a bucket property is not specified (whether or not you are changing the
        existing value), Couchbase Server may reset the property to the default. Even if you do
        not intend to change a certain property, re-specify the existing value to avoid this
        behavior.</note>
    </section> 
    
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
    <p>Curl request syntax:</p>
    <codeblock>curl -u [admin]:[password] -X POST
  http://[localhost]/pools/default/buckets/default 
  -d evictionPolicy=[valueOnly | fullEviction]</codeblock></section>
    
    <section><title>Example</title>
    <p>Curl request example:</p>
      <codeblock>curl -u admin:password -X POST
  http://10.5.2.54/pools/default/buckets/default 
  -d evictionPolicy=fullEviction</codeblock>
    
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Response codes</title>
    <codeblock>
"errors": {
        "evictionPolicy": "Eviction policy must be either 'valueOnly' or 'fullEviction'"
    </codeblock>
    
    
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
