<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_epl_5kd_sp">
  <title>Getting Auto-Compaction Settings</title>
  <shortdesc>Auto-compaction settings can be retrieved on a cluster-wide level or bucket level.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>

    
    <section><title>HTTP method and URI</title>
      <p>Auto-compaction settings can be configured for all buckets on a cluster-wide basis or for a specific bucket on the bucket-level</p>
      
      <codeblock>// Cluster-wide
GET /settings/autoCompaction

// Bucket-level
GET /pools/default/buckets/[bucket-name]     </codeblock>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Cluster-wide syntax</title>
    
    <p>To retrieve current auto-compaction settings for a cluster:</p>
    
    <codeblock>curl -u [admin]:[password] http://[localhost]:8091/settings/autoCompaction</codeblock><p>Replace
  the <i>admin</i>, <i>password</i>, and <i>localhost</i> values in the above
  example with your actual values.</p><p>This results in a JSON response as follows:</p>
      
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Cluster-wide example</title>
      <p>The following example requests auto-compaction information on a cluster-wide level. 
        GET is not specified because it is the default HTTP method.</p>
      
      <codeblock>curl -u Administrator:password \ 
  http://127.0.0.1:8091/settings/autoCompaction              </codeblock>
    
    
    
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Cluster-wide response</title>
      
      <p>This example response shows a <codeph>purgeInterval</codeph> of three days and no current
        thresholds set for data or index compaction. The field
        <codeph>parallelDBAndViewCompaction: false</codeph> indicates that the cluster
        will not perform data and index compaction in parallel.</p>
    
    <codeblock>{
    "autoCompactionSettings": {
        "databaseFragmentationThreshold": {
            "percentage": undefined, 
            "size": "undefined"
        }, 
        "parallelDBAndViewCompaction": false, 
        "viewFragmentationThreshold": {
            "percentage": undefined, 
            "size": "undefined"
        }
    }, 
    "purgeInterval": 3
}</codeblock>
    

      
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Bucket-level syntax</title>
    
    <p>To see auto-compaction settings for a single bucket, use this request:</p>
    <codeblock>curl -u admin:password http://[localhost]:8091/pools/default/buckets/[bucket_name]</codeblock>
    
    <p>Replace
      the <i>admin</i>, <i>password</i>, <i>localhost</i>, and <i>bucket_name</i>
      values in the above example with your actual values.</p>
      
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Bucket-level example</title>
      
      <p>The following example requests auto-compaction information for the bucket, test2. 
        GET is not specified because it is the default HTTP method.</p>
      
      
      <codeblock>curl -u Administrator:password 
  http://10.5.2.117:8091/pools/default/buckets/test2      </codeblock>

      
    </section>
      
      <section><title>Bucket-level response</title>
        
        <p>This example response shows the following:
          <ul>
            <li>A time interval set (from 1:00 am to 2:00 am) for when compaction can run.</li>
            <li>Abort enabled (true) if the run time exceeds the set time interval.</li>
            <li>Database and view fragmentation threshold set at 30%.</li>
            <li>A tombstone purge interval set to two (2) days>. 
              This means items can be expired for two days or
              deleted two days ago and their tombstones will be purged during the next cluster-wide auto-compaction run.</li>
          </ul></p>
    
    <codeblock> ...
    "autoCompactionSettings": {
        "allowedTimePeriod": {
            "abortOutside": true, 
            "fromHour": 1, 
            "fromMinute": 0, 
            "toHour": 2, 
            "toMinute": 0
        }, 
        "databaseFragmentationThreshold": {
            "percentage": 30, 
            "size": "undefined"
        }, 
        "parallelDBAndViewCompaction": true, 
        "viewFragmentationThreshold": {
            "percentage": 30, 
            "size": "undefined"
        }
    },  
    ...    
    "purgeInterval": 2,
...</codeblock>
    

    
    </section>
    
  </refbody>
</reference>
