<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_ad5_dcl_sp">
  <title>Updating server group memberships</title>
  <shortdesc>To change server group membership, use the <codeph>PUT /pools/default/serverGroups</codeph> HTTP method and URI.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section><title>HTTP method and URI</title>
      
      <codeblock>PUT /pools/default/serverGroups?rev=&lt;:number&gt;</codeblock>
      
      <p><codeph>PUT /pools/default/serverGroups?rev=&lt;:number&gt;</codeph> updates the server’s group
        memberships. In the following examples, the group name is optional. If the group name is
        provided, it <i>must</i> match the current group name. All servers must be mentioned and
        <i>all</i> groups must be mentioned. The URI is used to identify the group.</p>
      
      <p>This request moves servers from one server group to another. This request does not permit
        server group renaming or removal. In this example, the servers for Group 2 are moved to
        Group 1. </p>
      
      <p>The following is the group information that is needed to update the server and server
        group memberships:</p>
      
      <codeblock>{
   "groups": [( { ("name": &lt;groupName:string&gt;,)? 
   "uri": "/pools/default/serverGroups/"&lt;uuid&gt;,
   "nodes": [(&lt;otpNode&gt;)*]
}
</codeblock>
      
      <note type="note">The PUT request is transactional. The request either succeeds completely or
        fails without impact. If all nodes or groups are not passed, a generic error message: "Bad
        input" occurs and the server group is removed. </note>
      
    </section>
      
      <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <codeblock>curl -d @&lt;inputFile&gt; -X PUT 
  -u &lt;administrator&gt;:&lt;password&gt; 
  http://&lt;host&gt;:&lt;port&gt;/pools/default/serverGroups?rev=&lt;number&gt;
</codeblock>
      </section>
      
      <section><title>Example</title>
      <p>In this example, a JSON file is used.</p>
      <codeblock>curl -d@file.json -X PUT 
  http://Administrator:asdasd@192.168.0.1:8091/pools/default/serverGroups?rev=120137811
</codeblock>
      
      <p>In this example, the JSON data is provided on the command line.</p>
      <codeblock>
curl -v -X PUT 
  -u Administrator:password 
  http://192.168.171.144:8091/pools/default/serverGroups?rev=28418649 
  -d '{"groups":
      [{"nodes": [{"otpNode": "ns_1@192.168.171.144"},
                  {"otpNode": "ns_1@192.168.171.145"}], 
        "name": "Group 1", 
        "uri": "/pools/default/serverGroups/0"}, 
       {"nodes": [], 
        "name": "Group 2", 
        "uri": "/pools/default/serverGroups/3ca074a8456e1d4940cfa3b7badc1e22"}] }'
</codeblock>
      
     </section>
    
   
  </refbody>
</reference>
