<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="rest-bucket-flush">
  <title>Flushing buckets</title>
  <shortdesc>To flush all buckets, use the <codeph>POST
      /pools/default/buckets/default/controller/doFlush</codeph> HTTP method and URI.</shortdesc>
  
  <refbody>
    <section><title>Description</title>
    
    <p>The <codeph>doFlush</codeph> operation empties the contents of the specified bucket, deleting
      all stored data. The operation only succeeds if flush is enabled on configured bucket.</p>
    
    <note type="warning">This operation is data destructive. The service makes no attempt to confirm or double check
      the request. Client applications using this are advised to double check with the end user
      before sending such a request. You can control and limit the ability to flush individual
      buckets by setting the <codeph>flushEnabled</codeph> parameter on a bucket in Couchbase Web Console or via
      <codeph>cbepctl flush_param</codeph>.</note>
      
      <p>Parameters and payload data are ignored, but the request must including the authorization
        header if the system has been secured.</p>
      
      <note type="important">The flush request may lead to significant disk activity as the data in the bucket is deleted
        from the database. The high disk utilization may affect the performance of your server until
        the data has been successfully deleted. </note>
      
      <note type="note">The flush request is not transmitted over XDCR replication configurations;.
        The remote bucket is not flushed. </note>
      <p>Couchbase Server returns a HTTP 404 response if the URI is invalid or if it does not
        correspond to an active bucket in the system.</p>
    </section>
    
    
    <section><title>HTTP method and URI</title>
      <codeblock>POST /pools/default/buckets/default/controller/doFlush</codeblock>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <p>Curl request syntax:</p>
      <codeblock>curl -X POST -u [admin]:[password]
  http://[localhost]:8091/pools/default/buckets/default/controller/doFlush
      </codeblock>
      
      <p>Raw HTTP request syntax:</p>
      <codeblock>POST /pools/default/buckets/default/controller/doFlush
Host: localhost:8091
Authorization: Basic xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
      </codeblock>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Example</title>
      <p>Curl request example:</p>
      <codeblock>
curl -X POST 'http://admin:password@localhost:8091/pools/default/buckets/default/controller/doFlush'
  </codeblock>
      
      <p>Raw HTTP request example:</p>
      <codeblock>POST /pools/default/buckets/default/controller/doFlush
Host: 10.5.2.54:8091
Authorization: Basic xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
      </codeblock>
    </section>
    
    
    <section><title>Response codes</title>
      <p>If the flush is successful, the HTTP response code is <codeph>200</codeph> is returned.</p>
      <codeblock>HTTP/1.1 200 OK</codeblock>
      
      <p>If flushing is disable for the specified bucket, a 400 response code is returned with the
        bucket status. For example:</p>
      <codeblock>{"_":"Flush is disabled for the bucket"}</codeblock>
      
    <p>If the bucket does not exist, a 404 response code is returned.</p>
    <codeblock>404 Not Found</codeblock>
    </section>

  </refbody>
</reference>
