<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="rest-get-internal-settings">
  <title>Viewing Internal Settings</title>
  <shortdesc>Internal settings change cluster behavior and are used for Couchbase use
    only.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
  
  <section>
    <title>Description</title>
 
  
    <p>These internal settings change cluster behavior, performance, and timing and are exposed only
      via the REST API. The <codeph>/internalSettings</codeph> parameters are implemented on the server level. </p>
    
      <note type="warning">The settings detailed on this page are meant for performance tuning. Rigorous and careful testing of any changes to these settings should be made in a non-production environment that is representative, in load and scale, of production data before implementing in production. Incorrect settings can cause severe impacts to cluster performance or operation due to resource consumption. Couchbase makes no recommendations for tuning beyond the default settings. Any changes to these settings not explicitly recommended by Couchbase Employees are not supported by Couchbase.</note>
    
    <note type="note">The Maximum Parallel Indexer setting can also be implemented on the global level via 
      <codeph>/settings/maxParallelIndexers globalValue</codeph>.</note>
    
    
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2.9*"/>
          <colspec colnum="3" colname="c3" colwidth="3.73*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>HTTP</entry>
              <entry>URI</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>GET</entry>
              <entry>/internalSettings</entry>
              <entry>Retrieves Couchbase internal settings.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>GET</entry>
              <entry>/settings/maxParallelIndexers</entry>
              <entry>Retrieves the global and node-specific parallel indexer configuration.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>POST</entry>
              <entry>/settings/maxParallelIndexers globalValue</entry>
              <entry>Sets and retrieves the new global and node-specific parallel indexer
                configuration. Value range: 1 to 1024. Default: 4</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Response codes</title>
      
      <codeblock>HTTP/1.1 200 OK
HTTP/1.1 500 Internal Server Error      </codeblock>
    
    
 
  <dl>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>Getting internal settings</dt>
      <dd>Couchbase internal settings are retrieved with the <codeph>GET /internalSettings</codeph> HTTP method and URI.</dd>
    </dlentry>
  </dl>
  
<dl>
  <dlentry>
    <dt>HTTP method and URI</dt>
    <dd> <codeblock>GET /internalSettings</codeblock></dd>
  </dlentry>
</dl>
    
<dl>
  <dlentry>
    <dt>Syntax</dt>
    <dd><codeblock>curl --username=ADMIN --password=PASSWORD HOST:PORT/internalSettings</codeblock></dd>
  </dlentry>
</dl>  
     
   <dl>
     <dlentry>
       <dt>Example</dt>
       <dd><codeblock>curl -u Administrator:password1 http://10.4.2.4:8091/internalSettings</codeblock></dd>
     </dlentry>
   </dl> 
 <dl>
   <dlentry>
     <dt>Response</dt>
     <dd><codeblock> {
       "capiRequestLimit": "", 
       "dropRequestMemoryThresholdMiB": "", 
       "indexAwareRebalanceDisabled": false, 
       "maxBucketCount": 10, 
       "maxParallelIndexers": 4, 
       "maxParallelReplicaIndexers": 2, 
       "rebalanceIgnoreViewCompactions": false, 
       "rebalanceIndexPausingDisabled": false, 
       "rebalanceIndexWaitingDisabled": false, 
       "rebalanceMovesBeforeCompaction": 64, 
       "rebalanceMovesPerNode": 1, 
       "restRequestLimit": "", 
       "xdcrAnticipatoryDelay": 0, 
       "xdcrCheckpointInterval": 1800, 
       "xdcrDocBatchSizeKb": 2048, 
       "xdcrFailureRestartInterval": 30, 
       "xdcrMaxConcurrentReps": 16, 
       "xdcrOptimisticReplicationThreshold": 256, 
       "xdcrWorkerBatchSize": 500
       }    </codeblock>
       
       <note type="note">The following internal parameters are deprecated. Use the equivalent
         parameter in <codeph>/settings/replications</codeph>
         instead.</note>
      
         
         <codeblock>xdcrCheckpointInterval
           xdcrDocBatchSizeKb
           xdcrFailureRestartInterval
           xdcrMaxConcurrentReps
           xdcrOptimisticReplicationThreshold
           xdcrWorkerBatchSize</codeblock></dd>
   </dlentry>
 </dl>
    </section>
 
  
  
<section>
    <title>Changing internal settings</title>
    <p>Couchbase internal settings are changed with the <codeph>POST /internalSettings</codeph> HTTP method and URI.</p>
   
   <dl>
     <dlentry>
       <dt>HTTP method and URI</dt>
       <dd><codeblock>POST /internalSettings</codeblock></dd>
     </dlentry>
   </dl>
 <dl>
   <dlentry>
     <dt>Syntax</dt>
     <dd><codeblock>curl -v -X POST 
       http://[admin]:[password]@[localhost]:8091/internalSettings -d [parameter]</codeblock></dd>
   </dlentry>
 </dl>  

  <dl>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>Example</dt>
      <dd>For example, to update the maximum number of buckets:
        <codeblock>curl -v -X POST \
          http://Administrator:password@10.5.2.117:8091/internalSettings -d maxBucketCount=15</codeblock>
      </dd>
    </dlentry>
  </dl>
      
     <dl>
       <dlentry>
         <dt>Response</dt>
         <dd><codeblock>* About to connect() to 10.5.2.117 port 8091 (#0)
           *   Trying 10.5.2.117... connected
           * Connected to 10.5.2.117 (10.5.2.117) port 8091 (#0)
           * Server auth using Basic with user 'Administrator'
           > POST /internalSettings HTTP/1.1
           > Authorization: Basic QWRtaW5pc3RyYXRvcjpwYXNzd29yZA==
           > User-Agent: curl/7.21.4 (x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu) libcurl/7.21.4 OpenSSL/0.9.8b zlib/1.2.3
           > Host: 10.5.2.117:8091
           > Accept: */*
           > Content-Length: 17
           > Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded 
           
           HTTP/1.1 200 OK
           Server: Couchbase Server
           Pragma: no-cache
           Date: Tue, 09 Sep 2014 01:01:57 GMT
           Content-Type: application/json
           Content-Length: 2
           Cache-Control: no-cache
           
           * Connection #0 to host 10.5.2.117 left intact
           * Closing connection #0</codeblock></dd>
       </dlentry>
     </dl>
   
      
</section> 
   
 <section>
  
    <title>Setting maximum parallel indexers</title>
   <p>Couchbase internal settings for the maximum parallel View indexers are retrieved and
      changed with the <codeph>GET</codeph> and <codeph>POST</codeph>
      <codeph>/settings/maxParallelIndexers</codeph> HTTP methods and URI.</p>
    
    <note>This setting only applies to View indexes and no the Indexing Service for Global Secondary Indexes (GSI).</note>
    
   <dl>
     <dlentry>
       <dt>HTTP method and URI</dt>
       <dd>To set the Maximum Parallel Indexer parameter on the global level, use the
         <codeph>/settings/maxParallelIndexers</codeph> URI and <codeph>globalValue</codeph>
         parameter. The value range is 1 to 1024. Default: 4. The results provide the global and
         node-specific parallel indexer configuration.<codeblock>GET /settings/maxParallelIndexers
           POST /settings/maxParallelIndexers globalValue </codeblock></dd>
     </dlentry>
   </dl> 
    
 <dl>
   <dlentry>
     <dt>Syntax</dt>
     <dd><codeblock>// Example via browser
       http://[localhost]:8091/settings/maxParallelIndexers
       
       // Example via curl
       curl -u [admin]:[password] http://[localhost]:8091/settings/maxParallelIndexers</codeblock></dd>
   </dlentry>
 </dl>  
   
      
  <dl>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>Example: GET</dt>
      <dd>To view the current setting:  <codeblock>curl -u Administrator:password http://10.5.2.117:8091/settings/maxParallelIndexers</codeblock></dd>
    </dlentry>
  </dl>   
      
   <dl>
     <dlentry>
       <dt>Response</dt>
       <dd><codeblock>{
         "globalValue": 4, 
         "nodes": {
         "ns_1@10.5.2.117": 4
         }
         } </codeblock></dd>
     </dlentry>
   </dl>
  <dl>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>Example: POST</dt>
      <dd>To change the setting, use the POST method with the
        <codeph>/settings/maxParallelIndexers</codeph> URI and <codeph>globalValue</codeph>
        parameter. Value range: 1 to 1024. Default: 4.<codeblock>curl  -X POST -u Administrator:password \
          http://10.5.2.117:8091/settings/maxParallelIndexers -d &apos;globalValue=8&apos;</codeblock></dd>
    </dlentry>
  </dl>      
        
       <dl>
         <dlentry>
           <dt>Response</dt>
           <dd> <codeblock>{
          "globalValue": 8, 
           "nodes": {
           "ns_1@10.5.2.117": 8
           }
           }       </codeblock></dd>
         </dlentry>
       </dl>
      
     
 </section>
  </refbody>
  </reference>



