<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference-rest-servergroups">
  <title>Server groups API</title>

  <shortdesc>The server groups REST API refers to the Rack Zone Awareness feature, which enables logical groupings 
    of servers on a cluster where each
    server group physically belongs to a rack or availability zone. </shortdesc>

  <refbody>
    <section><title>Description</title>
    <p>This feature provides the ability to specify that active and corresponding replica partitions
      be created on servers that are part of a separate rack or zone. For purposes of the server
      group REST API, racks or availability zones are represented as flat space of server groups
      with group names. To enable Rack Awareness, all servers in a cluster must be upgraded to use
      the Rack Awareness feature. </p>

    <note type="note">The Rack Awareness feature with its server group capability is an Enterprise
      Edition feature.</note>
    <p>The Server groups REST API provides the following capability:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Create server groups</li>
      <li>Edit server groups</li>
      <li>Delete server groups</li>
      <li>Assign servers to server groups.</li>
    </ul>

      
      <table>
        <title>Server group endpoints</title>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="3.18*"/>
          <colspec colname="col3" colwidth="1.97*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>HTTP method</entry>
              <entry>URI path</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>GET</entry>
              <entry><filepath>/pools/default/serverGroups</filepath></entry>
              <entry>Retrieves information about a server group.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>POST</entry>
              <entry><filepath>/pools/default/serverGroups</filepath></entry>
              <entry>Creates a server group with a specific name.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>PUT</entry>
              <entry><filepath>/pools/default/serverGroups/&lt;:uuid&gt;</filepath></entry>
              <entry>Updates the server group information.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>PUT</entry>
              <entry><filepath>/pools/default/serverGroups?rev=&lt;:number&gt;</filepath></entry>
              <entry>Updates a server’s group memberships.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>DELETE</entry>
              <entry><filepath>/pools/default/serverGroups/&lt;:uuid&gt;</filepath></entry>
              <entry>Deletes a specific server group.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table></section>


    
  </refbody>

</reference>
