<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="rest-views-get">
	<title>Getting views information</title>
	<shortdesc>To retrieve views information, access any server node in a cluster on port
		8092.</shortdesc>
	<refbody>
		
		<section><title>HTTP method and
				URI</title><codeblock>GET /[bucket-name]/_design/[ddoc-name]/_view/[view-name]</codeblock><p>Where:</p><ul>
				<li>bucket-name is the name of the bucket.</li>
				<li>ddoc-name is the name of the design document that contains the view.</li>
				<li>view-name is the name of the corresponding view within the design document.</li>
			</ul><p>Development view, the <codeph>ddoc-name</codeph> is prefixed with
					<codeph>dev_</codeph>. For example, the design document <codeph>beer</codeph> is
				accessible as a development view using <codeph>dev_beer</codeph>.</p><p>Production
				views are accessible using their name only.</p><table>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
					<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1*"/>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry><b>Request data</b></entry>
							<entry>None</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><b>Response data</b></entry>
							<entry>JSON of the rows returned by the view</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><b>Authentication required</b></entry>
							<entry>No</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
			
			<p>Parameters (optional):</p>
			
			<table>
				<title>Views parameters</title>
				<tgroup cols="3">
					<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
					<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1*"/>
					<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="3.96*"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Parameters</entry>
							<entry>Type</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>descending</codeph></entry>
							<entry>boolean</entry>
							<entry>Return the documents in descending by key order.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>endkey</codeph></entry>
							<entry>string</entry>
							<entry>Stop returning records when the specified key is reached. Key
								must be specified as a JSON value.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>endkey_docid</codeph></entry>
							<entry>string</entry>
							<entry>Stop returning records when the specified document ID is
								reached.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>full_set</codeph></entry>
							<entry>boolean</entry>
							<entry>Use the full cluster data set (development views only).</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>group</codeph></entry>
							<entry>boolean</entry>
							<entry>Group the results using the reduce function to a group or single row. Note: Do not use
								<codeph>group</codeph> with <codeph>group_level</codeph> because they are not compatible.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>group_level</codeph></entry>
							<entry>numeric</entry>
							<entry>Specify the group level to be used. Note: Do not use
								<codeph>group_level</codeph> with <codeph>group</codeph> because they are not compatible.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>inclusive_end</codeph></entry>
							<entry>boolean</entry>
							<entry>Specifies whether the specified end key is included in the result. 
								Note: Do not use <codeph>inclusive_end</codeph> with <codeph>key</codeph> 
							or <codeph>keys</codeph>.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>key</codeph></entry>
							<entry>string</entry>
							<entry>Return only documents that match the specified key. Key must be
								specified as a JSON value.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>keys</codeph></entry>
							<entry>array</entry>
							<entry>Return only documents that match each of keys specified within
								the given array. Key must be specified as a JSON value. Sorting is
								not applied when using this option.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>limit</codeph></entry>
							<entry>numeric</entry>
							<entry>Limit the number of the returned documents to the specified
								number.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>on_error</codeph></entry>
							<entry>string</entry>
							<entry>Sets the response in the event of an error. <p>Supported values: <ul>
										<li><codeph>continue</codeph> : Continue to generate view
											information in the event of an error, including the
											error information in the view response stream.</li>
										<li><codeph>stop</codeph> : Stop immediately when an error
											condition occurs. No further view information is
											returned.</li>
									</ul></p>
							</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>reduce</codeph></entry>
							<entry>boolean</entry>
							<entry>Use the reduction function.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>skip</codeph></entry>
							<entry>numeric</entry>
							<entry>Skip this number of records before starting to return the
								results.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>stale</codeph></entry>
							<entry>string</entry>
							<entry>Allow the results from a stale view to be used. <p>Supported
									values: <ul>
										<li><codeph>false</codeph> : Force a view update before
											returning data.</li>
										<li><codeph>ok</codeph> : Allow stale views.</li>
										<li><codeph>update_after</codeph> : Allow stale view, update
											view after it has been accessed.</li>
									</ul></p></entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>startkey</codeph></entry>
							<entry>string</entry>
							<entry>Return records with a value equal to or greater than the
								specified key. Key must be specified as a JSON value.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>startkey_docid</codeph></entry>
							<entry>string</entry>
							<entry>Return records starting with the specified document ID.</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table></section>
		
		<section><title>Syntax</title>
			<p>Curl request syntax:</p>
			<codeblock>GET http://[localhost]:8092/[bucket-name]/_design/[ddoc-name]/_view/[view-name]</codeblock>
			
			<p>To access a view stored within an SASL password-protected bucket, include the bucket name and
				bucket password within the URL of the request:</p>
			<codeblock>GET http://[bucket-name]:[password]@[localhost]: \
8092/[bucket-name]/_design/[ddoc-name]/_view/[view-name]</codeblock>
			<note type="note">Additional arguments to the URL request can be used to select information from the view,
				and provide limit, sorting and other options.</note>
			
			<p>To output only ten items:</p>
			<codeblock>GET http://[localhost]:8092/[bucket-name]/_design/[ddoc-name]/_view/[view-name]?limit=10</codeblock>
			<note type="important">The formatting of the URL follows the HTTP specification. The first argument is 
				separated from the base URL using a question mark ( <codeph>?</codeph> ). Additional
				arguments are separated using an ampersand ( <codeph>&amp;</codeph> ). Special
				characters are quoted or escaped according to the HTTP standard rules.</note>
			

		</section>
		
		<section><title>Example</title>
			<p>Curl request example:</p>
			<p>In the following example, an empty development view is created with a view name,
				ruthView, and a design document name, _design/dev_ruth in the bucket, test2.</p>
			
			<codeblock>curl -u Administrator:password -X GET \ 
  http://10.5.2.117:8092/test2/_design/dev_ruth/_view/ruthView</codeblock>
			

		</section>
		
		<section><title>Response</title>
			<p>View responses are JSON structures containing information about
				the number of rows in the view and the individual view information.</p>
				
				<p>The following shows an empty View result from the previous example.</p>
				
				<codeblock>{
    "rows": [], 
    "total_rows": 0
}</codeblock>
				<p>The following shows a populated View result:</p>
				
				<codeblock>{
  "total_rows": 576,
  "rows" : [
      {"value" : 13000, "id" : "James", "key" : ["James", "Paris"] },
      {"value" : 20000, "id" : "James", "key" : ["James", "Tokyo"] },
      {"value" : 5000,  "id" : "James", "key" : ["James", "Paris"] },
…
    ]
}</codeblock><p>The
				JSON response returns the following fields:</p><ul>
				<li>total_rows<p>A count of the number of rows of information within the stored
						View. This shows the number of rows in the full View index, not the number
						of rows in the returned data set.</p></li>
				<li>rows<p>An array, with each element of the array containing the returned view data,
						consisting of the value, document ID that generated the row, and the
						key.</p></li>
			</ul><p>In the event of an error or incorrect parameters, the HTTP response is a JSON
				structure with a basic <codeph>error</codeph> field and a more detailed
					<codeph>reason</codeph> field. For
				example:</p><codeblock>{
  "error":"bad_request",
  "reason":"invalid UTF-8 JSON: {{error,{1,\"lexical error: \
  invalid char in json text.\\n\"}},\n\"Paris\"}"
}</codeblock><note
				type="note">With client libraries, error response behavior might differ between
				client SDKs, but in all cases, an invalid query triggers an error or
				exception.</note></section>
		
	</refbody>
	
</reference>
