<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ykd_my4_1v">
  <title>Node Configuration</title>
  <body>
    <section><title>Node Configuration</title>
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="g-api-cfg">
          <dt>GET /api/cfg</dt>
          <dd><p>Returns the node's current view of the cluster's configuration as JSON.</p> <p><b>Permission Required</b>: cluster.settings!read</p> <codeblock spectitle="Sample response">{
    "indexDefs": {
        "implVersion": "4.0.0",
        "indexDefs": {
            "myFirstIndex": {
                "name": "myFirstIndex",
                "params": "",
                "planParams": {
                    "hierarchyRules": null,
                    "maxPartitionsPerPIndex": 0,
                    "nodePlanParams": null,
                    "numReplicas": 0,
                    "planFrozen": false
                },
                "sourceName": "",
                "sourceParams": "",
                "sourceType": "nil",
                "sourceUUID": "",
                "type": "blackhole",
                "uuid": "6cc599ab7a85bf3b"
            }
        },
        "uuid": "6cc599ab7a85bf3b"
    },
    "indexDefsCAS": 3,
    "indexDefsErr": null,
    "nodeDefsKnown": {
        "implVersion": "4.0.0",
        "nodeDefs": {
            "78fc2ffac2fd9401": {
                "container": "",
                "extras": "",
                "hostPort": "0.0.0.0:8094",
                "implVersion": "4.0.0",
                "tags": null,
                "uuid": "78fc2ffac2fd9401",
                "weight": 1
            }
        },
        "uuid": "2f0d18fb750b2d4a"
    },
    "nodeDefsKnownCAS": 1,
    "nodeDefsKnownErr": null,
    "nodeDefsWanted": {
        "implVersion": "4.0.0",
        "nodeDefs": {
            "78fc2ffac2fd9401": {
                "container": "",
                "extras": "",
                "hostPort": "0.0.0.0:8094",
                "implVersion": "4.0.0",
                "tags": null,
                "uuid": "78fc2ffac2fd9401",
                "weight": 1
            }
        },
        "uuid": "72d6750878551451"
    },
    "nodeDefsWantedCAS": 2,
    "nodeDefsWantedErr": null,
    "planPIndexes": {
        "implVersion": "4.0.0",
        "planPIndexes": {
            "myFirstIndex_6cc599ab7a85bf3b_0": {
                "indexName": "myFirstIndex",
                "indexParams": "",
                "indexType": "blackhole",
                "indexUUID": "6cc599ab7a85bf3b",
                "name": "myFirstIndex_6cc599ab7a85bf3b_0",
                "nodes": {
                    "78fc2ffac2fd9401": {
                        "canRead": true,
                        "canWrite": true,
                        "priority": 0
                    }
                },
                "sourceName": "",
                "sourceParams": "",
                "sourcePartitions": "",
                "sourceType": "nil",
                "sourceUUID": "",
                "uuid": "64bed6e2edf354c3"
            }
        },
        "uuid": "6327debf817a5ec7",
        "warnings": {
            "myFirstIndex": []
        }
    },
    "planPIndexesCAS": 5,
    "planPIndexesErr": null,
    "status": "ok"
}</codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="p-api-cfgrefresh">
          <dt>POST /api/cfgRefresh</dt>
          <dd><p>Requests the node to refresh its configuration from the configuration provider.</p> <p><b>Permission Required
          </b>: cluster.settings!write</p></dd></dlentry>
        <dlentry id="p-api-mgrkick">
          <dt>POST /api/managerKick</dt>
          <dd><p>Forces the node to replan resource assignments (by running the planner, if enabled) and to update its runtime state to reflect the latest plan (by running the janitor, if enabled).</p> <p><b>Permission Required</b>: cluster.settings!write</p></dd></dlentry>
        <dlentry id="g-api-mgrmeta">
          <dt>GET /api/managerMeta</dt>
          <dd><p>Returns information on the node's capabilities, including available indexing and storage options as JSON, and is intended to help management tools and web UI's to be more dynamically metadata driven.</p> <p><b>Permission Required</b>: cluster.settings!read</p></dd></dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section><title>Node Diagnostics</title>
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="g-api-diag">
          <dt>GET /api/diag</dt>
          <dd><p>Returns the full set of diagnostic information from the node in one shot as JSON. That is, the /api/diag response will be the union of the responses from the other REST API diagnostic and monitoring endpoints from the node, and is intended to make production support easier.</p> <p>For example, for a three node cluster, you could capture the <filepath>/api/diag</filepath>
              output of each node with something like:
              <codeblock>curl http://cbft-01:8094/api/diag > cbft-01.json
curl http://cbft-02:8094/api/diag > cbft-02.json
curl http://cbft-03:8094/api/diag > cbft-03.json</codeblock></p> <p>The <filepath>/api/diag</filepath> response JSON object can be quite large, from 100's of KB to much more.</p> <p>The motivation for <filepath>/api/diag</filepath> is to simplify working with the Couchbase community, forums, technical support and other engineers by making data capture from each FTS node a single step.</p> <p><b>Permission Required
          </b>: cluster.logs!read</p></dd> </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="g-api-log">
          <dt>GET /api/log </dt>
          <dd><p>Returns recent log messages and key events for the node as JSON.</p> <p><b>Permission Required </b>: cluster.logs!read</p><codeblock spectitle="Sample response">{
    "events": [],
    "messages": []
}</codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>  
        <dlentry id="g-api-runtime">
          <dt>GET /api/runtime</dt>
          <dd><p>Returns information on the node's software, such as version strings and slow-changing runtime settings as JSON.</p> <p><b>Permission Required
          </b>: cluster.settings!read</p> <codeblock spectitle="Sample response">{
    "arch": "amd64",
    "go": {
        "GOMAXPROCS": 1,
        "GOROOT": "/usr/local/go",
        "compiler": "gc",
        "version": "go1.4"
    },
    "numCPU": 8,
    "os": "darwin",
    "versionData": "4.0.0",
    "versionMain": "v0.3.1"
}          </codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="g-api-runtime-args">
          <dt>GET /api/runtime/args</dt>
          <dd><p>Returns information on the node's command-line, parameters, environment variables and O/S process values as JSON.</p> <p><b>Permission Required </b>: cluster.settings!read</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="p-api-runtime-cpu">
          <dt>POST /api/runtime/profile/cpu</dt>
          <dd><p>Requests the node to capture local cpu usage profiling information.</p> <p><b>Permission Required </b>: cluster.admin</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="p-api-runtime-memory">
          <dt>POST /api/runtime/profile/memory</dt>
          <dd><p>Requests the node to capture lcoal memory usage profiling information.</p> <p><b>Permission Required </b>: cluster.admin</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section><title>Node Management</title>
     <dl>
       <dlentry id="p-api-runtime-gc">
         <dt>POST /api/runtime/gc</dt>
         <dd><p>Requests the node to perform a GC.</p> <p><b>Permission Required </b>: cluster.admin</p></dd>
       </dlentry>
     </dl>
    </section>
    <section><title>Node Monitoring</title>
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="g-api-runtime-stats">
          <dt>GET /api/runtime/stats</dt>
          <dd><p>Returns information on the node's low-level runtime stats as JSON.</p> </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="g-api-runtime-statsmem">
          <dt>GET /api/runtime/statsMem </dt>
          <dd><p>Returns information on the node's low-level GC and memory related runtime stats as JSON.</p> </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
