<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="rest-cluster-autofailover">
  
  <title>
    Managing Auto-Failover
  </title>
  
  <shortdesc>
    Auto-failover is managed by means of the the <codeph>GET /settings/autoFailover</codeph> HTTP method and URI.
  </shortdesc>
  
  <refbody>
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Description
      </title>
      
    <p>This section provides information about retrieving, enabling, disabling, and resetting
      auto-failover.
    </p>
      
      <table>
        <title>
          Auto-Failover Endpoints
        </title>
        
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="0.4*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.3*"/>
          <colspec colname="col3" colwidth="3.6*"/>
          
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>HTTP method</entry>
              <entry>URI path</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>GET</entry>
              
              <entry><filepath>/settings/autoFailover</filepath></entry>
              
              <entry>
                Retrieves automatic-failover settings. Uses the following parameters: 
                <p>
                </p>
                
                <ul>
                  
                  <li>
                    <codeph>enabled</codeph>. Indicates whether automatic failover is enabled (a value of <codeph>true</codeph>) or
                    disabled (a value of <codeph>false</codeph>).
                  </li>
                  
                  <li>
                    <codeph>timeout</codeph>. Returns an integer between 5 and 3600, which specifies the number of seconds set 
                    to elapse,
                    after a node has become unavailable, before automatic failover is triggered.
                  </li>
                  
                  <li>
                    <codeph>count</codeph>. This parameter represents how many sequential auto-failover events have 
                    occurred since the parameter
                    was itself last reset, to a value of 0, through administrator intervention.
                  </li>
                  
                </ul>
                
              </entry>
              
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry>POST</entry>
              
              <entry><filepath>/settings/autoFailover</filepath></entry>
              
              <entry>
                Enables and disables automatic failover. Uses the following paramenters:
                
                <p>
                  
                </p>
                
                <ul>
                  <li>
                    <codeph>enabled=[true|false]</codeph>. Enables or disables automatic failover.
                  </li>
                  
                  <li>
                    <codeph>timeout=</codeph><i>number-of-seconds</i>. Integer between 5 and 3600. Specifies the number of seconds
                    that must elapse after a node has become unavailable, before automatic failover is triggered.
                  </li>
                  
                  <li>
                    <codeph>maxCount=</codeph><i>number-of-events</i>. Specifies the number of auto-failover events that are 
                    sequentially handled before user intervention is required. An <i>event</i> might consist of one node failing over; or 
                    alternatively, of an entire server group failing over. 
                    The maximum allowed value is three. The default value is one. 
                  </li>
                  
                  <li>
                    <codeph>failoverServerGroup=[true|false]&amp;maxCount=</codeph><i>number-of-seconds</i>. 
                    Enables or disables automatic failover for server groups, and specifies the number of seconds that must elapse 
                    after a node has become unavailable, before automatic failover is triggered.
                    Do not enable failover for server groups unless you have set up three of more server groups, and have the capacity 
                    to absorb the load of any failed-over group.
                  </li>
                  
                  <li>
                    <codeph>failoverOnDataDiskIssues[enabled]=[true|false]&amp;failoverOnDataDiskIssues[timePeriod]=</codeph><i>number-of-seconds</i>.
                    Integer between 5 and 3600. Enables or disables automatic failover for any sustained disk read/write failure, 
                    after the specied time-period has elapsed
                  </li>
                  
                  
                  
                </ul>
                
              </entry>
              
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>POST</entry>
              <entry><filepath>/settings/autoFailover/resetCount</filepath></entry>
              <entry>Resets automatic failover count to 0.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
