<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="rest-dd0cs-delete">
  <title>Deleting Design Documents</title>
  <shortdesc>To delete a design document, use the
    <codeph>DELETE /buckets/_design/[ddocs-name]</codeph> HTTP request and URI on the <codeph>8092</codeph> port.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>Deleting a design document immediately invalidates the design document and
        all views and indexes associated with it. The indexes and stored data on disk are
        removed in the background.</p>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>HTTP method and URI</title>
      <p>The design document name follows the <codeph>/bucket/_design</codeph> URI.</p>
      <codeblock>DELETE /bucket/_design/[ddoc-name]</codeblock>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1*"/>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><b>Request Data</b></entry>
              <entry>Design document definition (JSON)</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><b>Response Data</b></entry>
              <entry>Success and confirmed design document ID</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><b>Authentication Required</b></entry>
              <entry>Optional</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>

    </section>

    
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <p>Curl request syntax:</p>
      <codeblock>curl -v -X DELETE 
  -H "Content-Type: application/json"
  -u [admin]:[password]
  http://[localhost]:8092/default/_design/[ddoc-name]</codeblock>
      
      <note type="important">The request is issued on the <codeph>8092</codeph> port.</note>
      

    </section>
    
    <section><title>Example</title>
      <p>Curl request example:</p>
      <codeblock>curl -v -X DELETE \
  http://Administrator:Password@192.168.0.77:8092/default/_design/dev_byfield</codeblock>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Response</title>
      <p>When the design document has been successfully removed, the JSON returned indicates
        successful completion and confirmation of the remova.</p>
      
      <codeblock>{
   "ok":true,
   "id":"_design/dev_byfield"
}</codeblock><p>Error conditions are returned if the authorization is incorrect or the specified design document
  cannot be found.</p>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Response codes</title>

      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2.85*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Response codes</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>200</entry>
              <entry>Request completed successfully.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>401</entry>
              <entry>The item requested was not available using the supplied
                authorization, or authorization was not supplied.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>404</entry>
              <entry>The requested content could not be found. 
                The returned content includes further information, as a JSON object, if available.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
