<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="rest-cluster-get-info">
  <title>Retrieving cluster information</title>
  <shortdesc>Cluster information is retrieved with <codeph>GET /pools</codeph> HTTP method and URI.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <p>Curl request syntax:</p>
      
      <codeblock>curl -u [admin]:[password] http://[localhost]:8091/pools</codeblock>
      
      <p>HTTP request syntax:</p>
      <codeblock>GET /pools
Host: localhost:8091
Authorization: Basic xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Accept: application/json
X-memcachekv-Store-Client-Specification-Version: 0.1</codeblock>
      
      <p>A <term>pool</term> represents computing resources (machines, memory, CPU, disks) 
        that are used to host Couchbase buckets. Couchbase Server clusters currently support only a single pool named <codeph>default</codeph>.      
</p>      
      <p>While the specified server is a member of one cluster, a server can also be aware of other
        pools. The Client-Specification-Version is optional in the request, but advised. It enables
        implementations to adjust representation and state transitions to the client, if backward
        compatibility is desirable.</p>
      
    </section> <section><title>HTTP method and URI</title>
    
    <p>One of the first ways to discover the URI endpoints for the REST API is to find the available
        clusters. To find the available clusters, provide the Couchbase Server IP address, port
        number, and append <codeph>/pools</codeph>.</p>
      
      <codeblock>GET /pools           </codeblock>
      
    </section>
    

    
    <section><title>Example</title>
      
      <p>To send a request for cluster information using curl:</p>
      
      <codeblock>curl -u Administrator:password http://10.5.2.117:8091/pools              </codeblock>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Response</title>
      
      <p>Couchbase Server returns only one cluster per group of systems and the cluster typically
        has a default name. Couchbase Server returns the build number for the server in
          <codeph>implementationVersion</codeph> and the specifications supported are in
          <codeph>componentsVersion</codeph>. </p>
      
    <p>The corresponding HTTP response contains a JSON document describing the cluster
      configuration.</p>
      
    <codeblock>  % Total    % Received % Xferd  Average Speed   Time    Time     Time  Current
                                 Dload  Upload   Total   Spent    Left  Speed
100  1037  100  1037    0     0  64294      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:-- 69133
{
&quot;componentsVersion&quot;: {
&quot;ale": "3.0.0-1209-rel-enterprise&quot;, 
        "asn1": "2.0.4", 
        "compiler": "4.9.4", 
        "couch": "2.1.1r-432-gc2af28d", 
        "couch_index_merger": "2.1.1r-432-gc2af28d", 
        "couch_set_view": "2.1.1r-432-gc2af28d", 
        "couch_view_parser": "1.0.0", 
        "crypto": "3.2", 
        "inets": "5.9.8", 
        "kernel": "2.16.4", 
        "lhttpc": "1.3.0", 
        "mapreduce": "1.0.0", 
        "mochiweb": "2.4.2", 
        "ns_server": "3.0.0-1209-rel-enterprise", 
        "oauth": "7d85d3ef", 
        "os_mon": "2.2.14", 
        "public_key": "0.21", 
        "sasl": "2.3.4", 
        "ssl": "5.3.3", 
        "stdlib": "1.19.4", 
        "syntax_tools": "1.6.13", 
        "xmerl": "1.3.6"
    }, 
    "implementationVersion": "3.0.0-1209-rel-enterprise", 
    "isAdminCreds": true, 
    "isEnterprise": true, 
    "isROAdminCreds": false, 
    "pools": [
        {
            "name": "default", 
            "streamingUri": "/poolsStreaming/default?uuid=995618a6a6cc9ac79731bd13240e19b5", 
            "uri": "/pools/default?uuid=995618a6a6cc9ac79731bd13240e19b5"
        }
    ], 
    "settings": {
        "maxParallelIndexers": "/settings/maxParallelIndexers?uuid=995618a6a6cc9ac79731bd13240e19b5", 
        "viewUpdateDaemon": "/settings/viewUpdateDaemon?uuid=995618a6a6cc9ac79731bd13240e19b5"
    }, 
    "uuid": "995618a6a6cc9ac79731bd13240e19b5"
}</codeblock>

      
    </section>



  </refbody>
</reference>
