<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="rest-index-settings">
  <title>Managing Index parameters</title>
  <shortdesc>The Index service parameters are retrieved and changed with the <codeph>GET</codeph> and 
    <codeph>POST</codeph> HTTP methods and the 
    <codeph>/settings/indexes</codeph> URI.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>The Index service parameters include:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph>indexerThreads</codeph></dt>
          <dd>Number of dedicated threads the indexer uses. 
            On multi-core machines increasing this number increases the amount of CPU available to the indexer. 
            Default: 4</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph>maxRollbackPoints</codeph></dt>
          <dd>The maximum number of committed rollback points. Default: 5</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph>memorySnapshotInterval</codeph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the frequency of in-memory snapshots. 
            This determines the earliest possibility of a scan seeing a given KV mutation. 
          Specified in milleseconds (ms). Default: 200</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph>stableSnapshotInterval</codeph></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the frequency of persisted snapshots for recovery. Specified in seconds (sec). Default: 30000</dd>
        </dlentry>

      </dl>
      
    </section>
    
    <section><title>HTTP method and URI</title>
      <codeblock>GET /settings/indexes
POST /settings/indexes      </codeblock>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <p>Curl request syntax:</p>
      <codeblock>curl -X GET http://[localhost]:[port]/settings/indexes -u [admin-name]:[password]</codeblock>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Example</title>
      <p>Curl request example:</p>
      <codeblock>curl -X GET http://10.3.5.205:8091/settings/indexes -u Administrator:password</codeblock>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Response</title>
      <p>Example response:</p>
      
        <codeblock>
  % Total    % Received % Xferd  Average Speed   Time    Time     Time  Current
                                 Dload  Upload   Total   Spent    Left  Speed
102   102  102   102    0     0  52550      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--   99k
{
    "indexerThreads": 4,
    "maxRollbackPoints": 5,
    "memorySnapshotInterval": 200,
    "stableSnapshotInterval": 30000
}    </codeblock>
    </section>
    
  </refbody>
</reference>
