<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="rest-cluster-join-nodes">
	<title>Joining nodes into clusters</title>
	<shortdesc>Nodes can be added to clusters with the <codeph>POST /node/controller/doJoinCluster</codeph> HTTP method and URI.</shortdesc>
	<refbody>
		
		<section><title>Syntax</title>
			
			<p>HTTP request syntax:</p>
			<codeblock>POST /node/controller/doJoinCluster
Host: localhost:8091
Authorization: Basic xxxxxxxxxxxx
Accept: */*
Content-Length: xxxxxxxxxx
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
clusterMemberHostIp=[ip-address]&amp;clusterMemberPort=[port]&amp;user=[admin]&amp;password=[password]</codeblock>
			
			<p>Curl request syntax:</p>
			<codeblock>curl -u [admin]:[password] -d clusterMemberHostIp=[ip-address] \
	-d clusterMemberPort=[port] \
	-d user=[admin] -d password=[password]
	-d services=[data | index | n1ql]
	http://[localhost]:8091/node/controller/doJoinCluster</codeblock>
		</section>
		<section><title>Description</title>
		<p>This REST request adds an individual server node to a cluster. Two clusters cannot be merged
				together into a single cluster, however, a single node can be added to an existing
				cluster. The <codeph>clusterMemberHostIp</codeph> and
					<codeph>clusterMemberPort</codeph> parameters must be specified to add a node to
				a cluster.</p>
		</section>
		
		<section><title>HTTP method and URI</title>
			<codeblock>POST /node/controller/doJoinCluster			</codeblock>
		
		
		<p>The following parameters are required:</p>
		
		<table>
			<title>/node/controller/doJoinCluster parameters</title>
			<tgroup cols="2">
				<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
				<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2.47*"/>
				<thead>
					<row>
						<entry>Argument</entry>
						<entry>Description</entry>
					</row>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry>clusterMemberHostIp</entry>
						<entry>Hostname or IP address of a member of the cluster that the node receiving the POST is
								joining.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>clusterMemberPort</entry>
						<entry>Port number for the RESTful interface to the system. If the cluster
							requires credentials, provide the administrator username and
							password.</entry>
					</row>
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table>
		</section>
		


		<section><title>Example</title>
			
			<p>HTTP request example:</p>
				<codeblock>POST /node/controller/doJoinCluster
Host: 10.5.2.54:8091
Authorization: Basic xxxxxxxxxxxx
Accept: */*
Content-Length: xxxxxxxxxx
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
clusterMemberHostIp=192.168.0.1&amp;clusterMemberPort=8091&amp;user=admin&amp;password=admin123
</codeblock>
			
			<p>Curl request example:</p>
		
		<codeblock>curl -u Administrator:password -d clusterMemberHostIp=192.168.0.1 \
	-d clusterMemberPort=8091 \
	-d user=admin -d password=password
	http://10.5.2.54:8091/node/controller/doJoinCluster</codeblock>
		
		</section>
		

		
		<section><title>Response codes</title>

		<codeblock>200 OK with Location header pointing to pool details of pool just joined - successful join
400 Bad Request - missing parameters, etc.
401 Unauthorized - credentials required, but not supplied
403 Forbidden bad credentials - invalid credentials</codeblock>
		</section>
	</refbody>
</reference>
