<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="rest-bucket-delete">
	<title>Deleting buckets</title>
	<shortdesc>To delete buckets, use the <codeph>DELETE /pools/default/buckets/[bucket-name]</codeph>
		HTTP method and URI.</shortdesc>
	
	<refbody>
		
		<section><title>Description</title>
			<p>Bucket deletion is a synchronous operation. When a cluster has multiple servers, some servers
				might not be able to delete the bucket within the standard 30 second timeout period.</p>
			<ul>
				<li>If the bucket is deleted on all servers within the standard timeout of 30 seconds, 
					a <codeph>200</codeph> response code is returned. </li>
				<li>If the bucket is not deleted on all servers within the 30 second timeout, 
					a <codeph>500</codeph> error code is returned.</li>
				<li>If the bucket is not deleted on all servers and another request is made to delete the bucket, 
					a <codeph>404</codeph> error code is returned.</li>
				<li>If the bucket is not deleted on all servers and a request is made to crate a new bucket with the same name, 
				an error might be returned indicating that the bucket is still being deleted.</li>
			</ul>
			
			<note type="warning"> This operation is data destructive. 
				The service makes no attempt to double check with the user. 
				It simply moves forward. 
				Clients applications performing the delete operation are advised to double
				check with the end user before sending the request.</note>
		</section>
		
		<section><title>HTTP method and URI</title>

			<codeblock>DELETE /pools/default/buckets/[bucket-name]</codeblock>
			<table>
			<tgroup cols="2">
				<colspec colname="col1"/>
				<colspec colname="col2"/>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry><b>Request data</b></entry>
						<entry>None</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><b>Response data</b></entry>
						<entry>None</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><b>Authentication required</b></entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table>
		
		
			
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Syntax</title>
			<p>Curl request syntax:</p>
			<codeblock>curl -X DELETE -u [admin]:[password]
http://[localhost]:8091//pools/default/buckets/[bucket-name]</codeblock>
			
			<p>Raw HTTP request syntax:</p>
			<codeblock>DELETE /pools/default/buckets/[bucket-name]
Host: [localhost]:8091
Authorization: Basic xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx</codeblock>
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Example</title>
			<p>Curl request example to delete the bucket named myTestBucket:</p>
			<codeblock>curl -X DELETE -u Administrator:password \
http://10.5.2.54:8091/pools/default/buckets/myTestBucket</codeblock>
			
			<p>Raw HTTP request example to delete the bucket named myTestBucket:</p>
			<codeblock>DELETE /pools/default/buckets/myTestBucket
Host: 10.5.2.54:8091
Authorization: Basic xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx</codeblock>
		</section>
		

	
	<section><title>Response codes</title>
		<table>
			<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
					<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2.85*"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Response codes</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>200</entry>
							<entry>OK Bucket Deleted on all nodes</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>401</entry>
							<entry>Unauthorized</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>404</entry>
							<entry>Object Not Found</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>500</entry>
							<entry>Bucket could not be deleted on all nodes</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>503</entry>
							<entry>Buckets cannot be deleted during a rebalance</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
		</table>
	</section>
		
	</refbody>
</reference>
