<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="cli-increment-backup">
  <title>Backing up incrementally</title>
	<shortdesc>Incremental backups are run by using the <codeph>cbbackup</codeph>
			command-line tool.</shortdesc>

	<refbody>
		<section><title>Description</title>
  	
		<p>The general format of the <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> command is:
		<codeblock>cbbackup [options] source backup_dir </codeblock></p>
		<p>The updated <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> tool adds a new option
			to support incremental backups. The tool still supports the existing options.</p>
		<p>The following table describes the new backup mode option:</p>
      
<table>
	<tgroup cols="2">
		<thead>
			<row>
				<entry>Option</entry>
				<entry>Description</entry>
			</row>
		</thead>
		<tbody>
			<row>
				<entry><codeph>-m MODE</codeph>, <codeph>--mode=MODE</codeph></entry>
				<entry>Backup mode. The mode option takes any one of the following values: <dl>
								<dlentry>
									<dt><codeph>full</codeph></dt>
									<dd>Perform a full backup</dd>
								</dlentry>
								<dlentry>
									<dt><codeph>diff</codeph></dt>
									<dd>Perform a differential incremental backup, which backs up only the
										changes since the last full or incremental backup.</dd>
								</dlentry>
								<dlentry>
									<dt><codeph>accu</codeph></dt>
									<dd>Perform a cumulative incremental backup, which backs up all changes
										since the last full backup.</dd>
								</dlentry>
							</dl></entry>
			</row>
		</tbody>
	</tgroup>
	
</table>
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Syntax</title>
			<p>Basic syntax:</p>
			<codeblock>cbbackup -m [backup-mode] http://[host]:8091 [backup-location]</codeblock>

			
			<p>Syntax example of a full backup plus two differentials and one accumulative for a single node.</p>
			
			<codeblock>
	cbbackup couchbase://HOST:8091 /backup-43 [-m full] --single-node
	cbbackup couchbase://HOST:8091 /backup-43 [-m diff] --single-node
	cbbackup couchbase://HOST:8091 /backup-43 [-m diff] --single-node
	cbbackup couchbase://HOST:8091 /backup-43 -m accu --single-node
			</codeblock>
			
			<note type="note">A full backup task is always triggered for a new sink location no matter what backup mode is specified.</note>
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Example</title>
		
		<p>The following example requests a full backup of all the data on the specified cluster:</p>
		<codeblock>cbbackup -m full http://example.com:8091 /backups/backup-1</codeblock>
		
    
		<p>After an initial full backup, incremental backups can be performed. 
			This example requests a differential incremental backup of all the data on the specified cluster:</p>
		<codeblock>cbbackup -m diff http://example.com:8091 /backups/backup-1</codeblock>
		
		<p>This example requests a cumulative incremental backup of all the data on the specified cluster:</p>
		<codeblock>cbbackup -m accu http://example.com:8091 /backups/backup-1</codeblock>
		</section>
		     
      
	</refbody>	     
    
  
</reference>
