<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept2798">
	<title>Creating a welcome page</title>
	<conbody>
		<p>The welcome page is the first page displayed when someone goes to the root of your site.
			The welcome page doesn't require any interaction with Couchbase Server, so you just need to
			tell Express to render the template for the welcome page:</p>
		<codeblock outputclass="language-javascript" spectitle="beer_app.js (welcome page)">function welcome(req, res) {
  res.render('welcome');
}
app.get('/welcome', welcome);</codeblock>
		
		
		
		<p>The <filepath>welcome.html</filepath> template is actually a Jade template that resides
			inside the <filepath>views</filepath> directory. The <filepath>welcome.jade</filepath>
			template looks like this:</p>


		<codeblock outputclass="language-jade" spectitle="views/welcome.jade">extends layout
block content
  .span6
    .span12
      h4 Browse all Beers
      a(href="/beers" class="btn btn-warning") Show me all beers
      hr
    .span12
      h4 Browse all Breweries
      a(href="/breweries" class="btn btn-info") Take me to the breweries
  .span6
    .span12
      h4 About this App
      p Welcome to Couchbase!
      p
        | This application helps you to get started on application
        | development with Couchbase. It shows how to create, update and
        | delete documents and how to work with JSON documents.</codeblock>

		<p>The template provides some links to the brewery and beer pages. An interesting thing about
			this template is that it inherits from the common <filepath>layout.jade</filepath>
			template. All pages in the beer app have a common header and footer to them with only their
			body differing.</p>

		<p>This is the <filepath>layout.jade</filepath> template:</p>

		<codeblock outputclass="language-jade" spectitle="views/layout.jade">!!!5
html(lang="en")
  head
    meta(charset="utf-8")
    title Couchbase Node.js Beer Sample
    meta(name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0")
    meta(name="description" content="The Couchbase Node.js Beer-Sample App")
    meta(name="author" content="Couchbase, Inc. 2013")

    link(href="/css/bootstrap.min.css" rel="stylesheet")
    link(href="/css/beersample.css" rel="stylesheet")
    link(href="/css/bootstrap-responsive.min.css" rel="stylesheet")

    //HTML5 shim, for IE6-8 support of HTML5 elements
    //if lt IE 9
      script(src="http://html5shim.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/html5.js")

  body
    .container-narrow
      .masthead
        ul.nav.nav-pills.pull-right
          li: a(href="/welcome") Home
          li: a(href="/beers") Beers
          li: a(href="/breweries") Breweries
        h2.muted Couchbase Beer Sample
      hr

      .row-fluid
        .span12
          block content
      hr

      .footer
        p &amp;copy; Couchbase, Inc. 2013

    script(src="/js/jquery.min.js")
    script(src="/js/beersample.js")</codeblock>
		<p>The template provides some links to the brewery and beer pages.</p>
		<p>Start your app now and navigate to <xref href="http://localhost:1337/welcome" format="html"
				scope="external" /> to see the welcome page. You’ll get a 404 error if you try to visit
			any links for pages that haven't been implemented yet. If you downloaded the complete app,
			the links should work.</p>
	</conbody>
</concept>
