<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_yqn_tjg_ps">
 <title>SDKs</title>
	<shortdesc>Couchbase offers a number of software development kits (SDKs) that enable programmatic access to Couchbase Server.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>
   <ul>
    <li><xref href="c-2.4/c-intro.dita#concept_zhc_crm_pp"/> The Couchbase C SDK provides a fast,
     callback-based API for interacting with your Couchbase cluster.</li>
    <li><xref href="go-beta/introduction.dita#concept_z3r_zgq_44"/> The Couchbase Go SDK is a native
     Go library and uses the high-performance gocbcore to handle communicating to the cluster over
     Couchbase’s binary protocols..</li>
    <li><xref href="java-2.2/java-intro.dita#concept_l11_ppm_pp"/> The Couchbase Java SDK provides
     synchronous and asynchronous (reactive) interfaces that allow your applications to interact
     efficiently with a Couchbase Server cluster.</li>
    <li><xref href="dotnet-2.2/dotnet-intro.dita#concept_m1n_rqm_pp"/> The .NET Couchbase SDK
     provides a way to store and retrieve your objects to and from a Couchbase cluster. It can be
     used via a synchronous or asynchronous interface.</li>
    <li><xref href="node-2.0/introduction.dita#concept_z3r_zgq_44"/>
     This is a native Node.js module and uses Couchbase's high performance C library to handle communicating to the cluster over Couchbase’s binary protocols.</li>
    <li><xref href="php-2.0/php-intro.dita#concept_z3r_zgq_44"/> The Couchbase PHP SDK is a native
     PHP extension and uses the Couchbase high-performance C library to handle communicating to the
     cluster over Couchbase binary protocols.</li>
    <li><xref href="python-2.0/introduction.dita#py-intro"/> The Couchbase Python SDK is written as
     a fast C extension with support for a traditional synchronous API, as well as gevent and
     twisted APIs for high performance asynchronous programming.</li>
   </ul>
   
   
   
   
  </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
