<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_bb5_khb_ys">
 <title>Global Secondary Indexes</title>
 <shortdesc>Global Secondary Indexes (GSI) support a variety of OLTP like use-cases for N1QL
  including basic, ad-hoc, and short-running reporting queries that require filtering. For example,
  if you have a WHERE clause in a N1QL statement that selects a subset of your data on which the
  secondary index is defined, you can see a significant speedup in the N1QL query performance by
  using GSI.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>Global secondary indexes are deployed independently into a separate index service within the
   Couchbase Server cluster, away from the data service that processes key based operations. GSIs
   provide the following advantages: <ul>
    <li>Predictable Performance: Core key based operations maintain predictable low latency even in
     the presence of a large number of indexes. Index maintenance does not compete with key based
     operations even under heavy mutations to data. </li>
    <li>Low Latency Queries: GSIs independently partition into the index service nodes and don’t
     have to follow hash partitioning of data into vBuckets. Queries using GSIs can achieve low
     latency response times even when the cluster scales out because GSIs don’t require a wide
     fan-out to all data service nodes.</li>
    <li>Advanced Scaling Model: GSI can be placed onto independent set of nodes. Administrators can
     add new indexes and evolve the application performance without stealing cycles from the
     incoming workload.</li>
   </ul></p>
  <section>
   <title>Creating Global Secondary Indexes</title>
   <p>You can define a primary or secondary index using GSIs in N1QL using the CREATE INDEX
    statement and the USING GSI clause. For more information on the syntax and examples, see <xref
     href="../../../n1ql/n1ql-language-reference/createindex.dita"/> statement.</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Placement of Global Secondary Indexes</title>
   <p>GSIs reside on the index nodes in the cluster. Each index service node can host multiple
    indexes and a single index can be hosted on multiple index nodes. Every index has an index
    key(s) (used for lookup). When the index type is not primary index, index can have an index
    filter with the WHERE clause.</p>
   <codeblock>CREATE INDEX index_name ON ( index_key1, ..., index_keyN) 
    WHERE index_filter 
    WITH { "nodes": [ "node1:8091" ] } 
    USING GSI | VIEW;</codeblock>
   <p>Based on the index filter, the index can be partitioned across multiple index service nodes
    and placed on given nodes using the WITH clause and "nodes" argument in CREATE INDEX
    statement.</p>
   <p>Administrators can place each index partition in a separate node to distribute index
    maintenance and index scan load. Index metadata stored on the index node knows about the
    distribution of the index. GSI does not use scatter-gather. Instead, based on the index
    metadata, it only touches the nodes that have the relevant data.</p>
  </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
