<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_vqx_skd_3t">
 <title>Connectivity Phases</title>
 <shortdesc>When a connection request comes in from the client side, the
  connection is established in three phases: authentication, discovery, and service connection.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
 <p> <ol>
    <li><b>Authentication</b>: In the first phase, the connection to a bucket is authenticated
     based on the credentials provided by the client. In case of Admin REST API, admin users are
     authenticated for the cluster and not just a bucket.</li>
    <li><b>Discovery</b>: In the second phase, the connection gets a cluster map which represents
     the topology of the cluster, including the list of nodes, how data is distributed on these
     nodes, and the services that run on these nodes. Client applications using the SDKs only need
     to know the URL or address to one of the nodes in the cluster. Client applications with the
     cluster map discover all other nodes and the entire topology of the cluster. </li>
    <li><b>Service Connection</b>: Armed with the cluster map, client SDKs figure out the
     connections needed to establish and perform the service level operations through key-value,
     N1QL, or View APIs. Service connections require a secondary authentication to the service to
     ensure the credentials passed on to the service have access to the service level operations.
     With authentication cleared, the connection to the service is established. <p>At times, the
      topology of the cluster may change and the service connection may get exceptions on its
      requests to the services. In such cases, client SDKs go back to the previous phase to rerun
      discovery and retry the operation with a new connection.</p></li>
   </ol></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
