<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="buckets_memory_and_storage">
  
  <title>
    Buckets, Memory, and Storage
  </title>
  
  <shortdesc>
    Couchbase Server saves data-items in <i>Buckets</i>. 
  </shortdesc>
  
  <body>
    
    <section>
      
      <title>
        Creating, Maintaining, and Accessing Data
      </title>
      
      <p>
        Couchbase Server keeps data-items in <i>Buckets</i>. Before a data-item can be saved by an
        application or user, a bucket must exist within which the data-item can be saved. Buckets
        can be created by means of the <i>Couchbase Web Console</i>, the <i>REST API</i>, or the
        <i>CLI</i>. Each bucket is assigned a name at its creation: this name is referenced by the
        application or user wishing to save or access data-items within it.
      </p>
        
      <p>
        The buckets most frequently used are <i>Couchbase</i> and 
        <i>Ephemeral</i> buckets. <i>Couchbase</i> buckets exist in both memory and on disk; 
        <i>Ephemeral</i> exist only in memory. Buckets can be configured to maintain data
        in compressed format, so as to maximize resource-effectiveness. Individual documents
        within a bucket can be assigned a <i>Time To Live</i>, to ensure that they expire
        after a specified time-period, thus rendering their data permanently inaccessible.
      </p>
      
      <p>
        Couchbase Server manages memory to ensure high performance and scalability: memory
        quotas are established, and data not recently used can be ejected, to make way for
        data more frequently requested. Multithreaded readers and writers provide simultaneous 
        read and write operations for data on disk, ensuring high I/O throughput.
      </p>
      
      <p>
        The pages in this section describe buckets, memory, storage, and all associated matters
        in detail.
      </p>
      
      
    </section>
    
    
    
  </body>
  
</topic>
