<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
  
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="bucket-expiration2">
 
 <title>
  Expiration
 </title>
 
 <shortdesc>
  <i>Bucket Time To Live</i> (TTL) imposes a maximum lifespan on items within a bucket, and thus
  ensures the expiration of such items, once the specified period is complete.
 </shortdesc>
 
 <body> 
  
  <section id="bucket-data-expiration-overview">
   
   <title>
    Overview
   </title>
   
   <p>
    Bucket TTL is a non-negative integer-value, specified per bucket, that determines the maximum expiration times
    of individual items: if Bucket TTL is enabled, each newly created
    item lives for the number of seconds specified by Bucket TTL, following the item's creation. After its 
    expiration time is reached, the item 
    will be deleted by Couchbase Server. Deleted items and their contents are no longer available: 
    access-attempts are treated
    as if the items never existed.
   </p>
   
   <p>
    The maximum value for Bucket TTL is MAX32INT seconds (2147483648, or 68.096 years). The default value is 0, which 
    indicates that Bucket TTL is disabled. If Bucket TTL is changed from the default, it is thereby enabled. 
   </p>
   
   <p>
    Whenever Bucket TTL is modified, items that existed <i>prior</i> to the modification:
   </p>
   
   <ul>
    <li>
     Remain subject to the previous Bucket TTL, if Bucket TTL was previously enabled.
     
     <p>
      
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
    <li>
     Remain subject to no Bucket TTL, if Bucket TTL was not previously enabled. 
     
     <p>
      
     </p>
    
    </li>
    
   </ul>
   
   <p>
    Items created or modified <i>following</i> the modification of Bucket TTL are subject to the modified Bucket TTL.
   </p>
   
   <p>
    Bucket TTL can be established on Couchbase and Ephemeral buckets. It cannot be established on
    Memcached buckets. Note that Bucket TTL is only available in the Enterprise Edition of Couchbase Server. 
   </p>
   
   
  </section>
  
  <section id="expiration-bucket-versus-item">
   
   <title>
    Expiration: Bucket versus Item
   </title>
   
   <p>
    As described in the <i>Expiration Overview</i> section of
    <xref href="../../sdk/core-operations.dita#devguide_kvcore_generic/expiry" scope="local" format="dita">Core Operations</xref>,
    an expiration time can be specified per item, by means of Couchbase SDK APIs: this is referred 
    to as the item’s TTL. If a new item’s TTL is specified to be:
    
   </p>
   
   <ul>
    <li>
     Above that of Bucket TTL, the item's TTL is reduced to the value of Bucket TTL.
    
     <p>
     
     </p>
    
    </li>
    
    <li>
     Below that of Bucket TTL, the item's TTL is left unchanged.
     
     <p>
      
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
    <li>
     0, the item's TTL is reset to the value of Bucket TTL.
     
     <p>
      
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
   </ul>
   
  </section>
  
  <section id="bucket_ttl_use_cases">
   
   <title>
    Bucket TTL Use Cases
   </title>
   
   <p>
    Bucket TTL is intended for use with buckets containing data that either must or can be permitted to expire after
    a certain period of time. 
   </p>
   
   <p>
    Bucket TTL <i>must not</i> be used with buckets whose data is required not to expire: for example, the buckets
    that support Couchbase Eventing and Couchbase Mobile. If Bucket TTL is used with such buckets, system failures 
    may result.
   </p>
   
  </section>
  
  <section id="post-expiration-purging">
   
   <title>
    Post-Expiration Purging
   </title>
   
   <p>
    When its expiration time is reached, an item is deleted
    as soon as one of the following occurs:
   </p>
   
   <p>
   </p>
   
   <ul>
    <li>
     An attempt is made to access the item.
     <p>
      
     </p>
    </li>
    
    <li>
     The <i>expiry pager</i> is run. For information on the expiry pager, see
     <xref href="../buckets-memory-and-storage/memory.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Memory</xref>.
     <p>
      
     </p>
    </li>
    
    <li>
     <i>Compaction</i> is run. For information on performing compaction with the Couchbase CLI, see
     <xref href="../../cli/cbcli/couchbase-cli-bucket-compact.html" scope="local" format="html">bucket-compact</xref>;
     with Couchbase REST APIs, see
     <xref href="../../rest-api/compaction-rest-api.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Compaction API</xref>; with
     the Couchbase Web Console (as <i>auto-compaction</i>), see
     <xref href="../../settings/configure-compact-settings.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Configuring Auto-Compaction</xref>.
     
     <p>
      
     </p>
    </li>
   </ul>
   
   <p>
    As described in 
    <xref href="./storage.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Bucket Disk Storage</xref>,
    for each item that is deleted, a tombstone, which includes key and metadata, continues to be maintained by 
    Couchbase Server for some period of time, as a record: this applies to all instances of item-deletion, 
    including those achieved by specifying Bucket TTL. To ensure that no trace of deleted items remains, 
    tombstones are
    removed through a <i>Metadata Purge</i>.
    This is an automatic, non-disruptive background-process, which can be scheduled if necessary by means of
    Couchbase Web Console; as described in
    <xref href="../../settings/configure-compact-settings.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Configuring Auto-Compaction</xref>.
    Note that the console allows the intervals between purges to be established as appropriately low, so
    that tombstones are removed promptly.
   </p>
   
  </section>
  
  <section id="bucket-expiration-and-xdcr">
   
   <title>
    Bucket-Expiration and XDCR
   </title>
   
   <p>
    When Cross Data-Center Replication occurs, the Bucket TTL setting does not get propagated from the source bucket 
    to the target. However, items within the source bucket that have individual expiration times, including ones 
    derived from the source Bucket TTL setting, are replicated to the target along with their individual expiration times. 
   </p>
   
   <p>
    Buckets in the target cluster can have their own Bucket TTL settings, which may differ from those 
    of the buckets in the source. If, on the target cluster, the TTL of a replicated item is: 
   </p>
   
   <ul>
    <li>
     Above that of Bucket TTL, the item's TTL is reduced to the value of Bucket TTL.
     
     <p>
      
     </p>
    </li>
    
    <li>
     Below that of Bucket TTL, the item's TTL is left unchanged.
     
     <p>
      
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
    <li>
     0, the item's TTL is reset to the value of Bucket TTL.
     
     <p>
     </p>
    </li>
   </ul>
   
   <p>
    Note that in cases where the TTL of the replicated item is above that of Bucket TTL or is 0, if bi-directional 
    XDCR has been set up, the TTL of the item at the source is
    eventually also either reduced or reset to the value of the target's Bucket TTL.
   </p>
   
   <p>
    Note also that when an item is replicated by XDCR, its expiration time is communicated to the target as absolute. 
    This requires that the system clocks of the respective clusters be fully synchronized; otherwise, inconsistent 
    behavior may result (as, for example, in the case where an item arrives at the target-cluster with an absolute 
    expiration time that is earlier than the current time acknowledged by the target-cluster). See
    <xref href="../../install/synchronize-clocks-using-ntp.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Clock Sync with NTP</xref>.
   </p>
   
  </section>
  
  <section id="setting-bucket-data-expiration">
   
   <title>
    Setting Bucket-Expiration
   </title>
   
   <p>
    An expiration time can be set for a bucket by means of any of the following:
   </p>
   
   <ul>
    
    <li>
     The UI provided by Couchbase Web Console. See
     <xref href="../../clustersetup/create-bucket.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Create a Bucket</xref>.
     <p>
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
    <li>
     The Couchbase CLI. See
     <xref href="../../cli/cbcli/couchbase-cli-bucket-create.html" scope="local" format="html">bucket-create</xref>.
     
     <p>
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
    <li>
     The Couchbase REST API. See
     <xref href="../../rest-api/rest-bucket-create.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Creating and Editing Buckets</xref>.
     <p>
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
   </ul>
   
   <p>
    For information on roles that allow modification of bucket-settings, see
    <xref href="../../security/security-authorization.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Authorization</xref>.
   </p>
   
  </section>
  
  <section id="auditing">
   
   <title>
    Auditing
   </title>
   
   <p>
    If <i>auditing</i> is switched on, changes to each bucket's expiration time are
    recorded, and can be subsequently viewed. See
    <xref href="../../security/security-auditing.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Auditing</xref>.
   </p>
   
  </section>
  
 </body>
 
</topic>
