<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="buckets_memory_and_storage">
  
  <title>
    Memory and Storage
  </title>
  
  <shortdesc>
    Couchbase Server provides a caching layer to facilitate high-speed data-access; and tunable disk I/O
    priorities, supported by multi-threaded readers and writers. 
  </shortdesc>
  
  <body>
    
    <section>
      
      <title>
        Caching and Persistence
      </title>
      
      <p>
        Couchbase Server provides a fully integrated <i>caching layer</i>, which provides high-speed data-access. Couchbase
        Server automatically manages the caching layer, ensuring that sufficient memory is available in relation
        to occupied disk-space, in order to maintain optimal performance. Data associated with <i>Couchbase</i> buckets
        is also maintained <i>persistenly</i>, on disk.
        Such items, when they come into the caching layer, are 
        placed onto the disk queue, to be written to disk; and at the same time, if appropriate, are placed on a
        replication queue, so that one or more replica buckets can be created or updated accordingly.
      </p>
        
      <p>
        Memory quotas, established by the Full Administrator when the server is configured, are automatically managed
        by Couchbase Server with reference to <i>watermarks</i>, which specify how much free memory should be
        consistently maintained within the caching layer. Consequently, infrequently used items are written to disk; are 
        then removed from memory in order to free up space; and are subsequently re-acquired from disk 
        as necessary. This process, referred to
        as <i>ejection</i>, is managed asynchronously, while the server continues to service active requests. 
        
        A <i>working-set</i> of most frequently used data is tracked and maintained, and the items kept in memory to ensure high performance.
      </p>
      
      
    </section>
    
    <section>
      
      <title>
        How an Item is Saved
      </title>
      
    </section>
    
    
    
  </body>
  
</topic>
