<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="sdk_authentication">
    
    <!-- This reusable contains a section used by the files named "sdk-authentication-overview.dita", which
         appear in the folder for each sdk language. Changes made here are reflected there.
      -->
    
    <title>
        Authentication
    </title>
    
    <shortdesc>
        RBAC requires that
        users pass appropriate <i>credentials</i> to Couchbase Server in order to access
        cluster-resources. The SDK provides enhanced support for the passing of credentials.
    </shortdesc>
    
    <body>
        
        <section id="RBAC_and_the_SDK">
            <title>
                RBAC and the SDK
            </title>
            
            <p>
                Couchbase Server 5.0 Enterprise Edition introduces <i>Role-Based Access Control</i>. This
                ensures that cluster-resources can only be accessed by <i>users</i> with appropriate
                <i>privileges</i>. Privileges are grouped in Couchbase-defined sets; and each set is associated with a specific <i>role</i>. 
                Users can each be assigned one or more roles, and are thereby granted the privileges associated with each role.
            </p>
            
            <p>
                In order to access cluster-resources, programs, including those supported by the Couchbase SDK, must 
                authenticate with Couchbase Server, and so be identified as existing users, each associated with one or 
                more roles. Authentication requires the passing of <i>credentials</i>; which consist of a <i>username</i> 
                and (in most cases) a <i>password</i>.
                Users may be defined either locally to Couchbase Server, or externally (for example, by means of an LDAP server). 
            </p>
            
            <p>
                Once authentication has succeeded, an <i>authorization</i> process checks the roles associated with the
                identified user. If role-associated privileges correspond to the level of resource-access requested by the user,
                access is duly granted; otherwise, it is denied.
            </p>
            
        </section>
        
        <section id="authenticating_with_legacy_sdk_versions">
            <title>
                Authenticating with Legacy SDK Versions
            </title>
            
            <p>
                For versions of Couchbase Server 5.0 and beyond, Role-Based Access
                Control (RBAC) is applied to all cluster-resources. Under RBAC, bucket-passwords are
                no longer used: instead, a username and user-password must be specified.
            </p>
            
            <p>    
                All pre-RBAC versions of the SDK can continue to be used with Couchbase Server 5.0 and beyond: the
                pre-RBAC authentication procedure need not change. However,
                when passed:
            </p>
            
            <ul>
                <li>
                    The value formerly interpreted as a bucket-name is now interpreted as a
                    username. The username must correspond to a user defined on the cluster that 
                    is being accessed.
                    
                    <p>
                        
                    </p>
                    
                </li>
                
                <li>
                    The value formerly interpreted as a bucket-password is now interpreted
                    as the password of the defined user.
                    
                    <p>
                    </p>
                    
                </li>
            </ul>
            
            <p>
                Note that on Couchbase Server 5.0 and beyond, the only buckets that can be
                accessed without a user-password are those that were created on legacy versions
                of the server; were not originally created with a bucket-password; and continue to 
                be available on 5.0 and beyond, following the required upgrade process. See 
                <xref href="../../../security/security-rbac-upgrade.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Upgrading 
                to RBAC</xref>
                for information on server-upgrade to 5.0, and how this affects
                access to legacy buckets.
            </p> 
            
            <p>
                On Couchbase Server 5.0 and beyond, for any bucket to be accessed successfully, the defined 
                user attempting access must have been assigned
                appropriate roles. See 
                <xref href="../../../security/security-rbac-user-management.dita" scope="local" format="dita">RBAC 
                    User Management</xref>
                for information on user-management.
            </p> 
                
        </section>

    </body>
        
</topic>
