<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_wgq_wzw_fp">
  <title>Backing up and restoring between platforms</title>
  <body>
    <p>Couchbase Server on Mac OS X uses a different number of configured vBuckets than the Linux
      and Windows installations. </p>
    <p>You must use the <codeph>rehash=1</codeph> option when restoring to Mac OS X from a Linux or
      Windows backup, or when restoring to Linux/Windows from a Mac OS X backup.</p>
    <section>
      <title>Backing up Mac OS X and restoring on Linux/Windows</title>
      <p>To back up the data from Mac OS X, use the standard <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> tool and
        options:</p>
      <codeblock>cbbackup http://Administrator:password@mac:8091 /macbackup/today</codeblock>
      <p>To restore the data to a Linux/Windows cluster, connect to the <codeph>8091</codeph> port
        and use the <codeph>rehash=1</codeph> option to rehash the information and distribute the
        data to the appropriate nodes within the cluster. <codeph>rehash=1</codeph> rehashes the
        partition IDs of each item. </p>
      <codeblock>cbrestore backup 
  -u [username] -p [password] 
  -x rehash=1
  http://[localhost]:8091 --bucket-source [my_bucket] --bucket-destination [my_bucket]</codeblock>
      <note type="note">If you have backed up multiple buckets from your Mac, you must restore to each bucket
        individually.</note>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Backing up Linux/Windows and restoring on Mac OS X</title>
      <p>To back up the data from Linux or Windows, use the standard <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> tool
        and options:</p>
      <codeblock>cbbackup http://Administrator:password@linux:8091 /linuxbackup/today</codeblock>
      <p>To restore to the Mac OS X node or cluster, connect to the <codeph>8091</codeph> port and
        use the <codeph>rehash=1</codeph> option to rehash the information and distribute the data
        to the appropriate node within the cluster. <codeph>rehash=1</codeph> rehashes the partition
        IDs of each item. This is needed when transferring data between clusters with different
        number of partitions, such as when transferring data from a Mac OS X server to a non-Mac OS
        X cluster.</p>
      <p>Syntax:</p>
      <codeblock>./cbrestore backup 
  -u [username] -p [password] 
  -x rehash=1
  http://[localhost]:8091 --bucket-source [my_bucket] --bucket-destination [my_bucket]
      </codeblock>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Transferring data directly</title>
      <p>The <codeph>cbtransfer</codeph> tool can be used to move data directly between Mac OS X and
        Linux/Windows clusters without creating a backup file.</p>
      <codeblock>
cbtransfer http://linux:8091 http://mac:8091 -b [bucket-source] -B [bucket-destination] -x rehash=1
cbtransfer http://mac:8091 http://linux:8091 -b [bucket-source] -B [bucket-destination] -x rehash=1
    </codeblock>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
