<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="views-writing-utility">
 <title>Built-in utility functions</title>
 <shortdesc>Utility functions are available that can be used within <codeph>map()</codeph> and
  <codeph>reduce()</codeph> functions.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>

   <p>Couchbase Server incorporates different utility functions beyond the core JavaScript
    functionality that can be used within <codeph>map()</codeph> and
    <codeph>reduce()</codeph> functions where relevant.</p>
   <ul>
    <li><codeph>dateToArray(date)</codeph></li>
   </ul>
   <p>Converts a JavaScript Date object or a valid date string such as
    "2012-07-30T23:58:22.193Z" into an array of individual date components. For example, the
    previous string would be converted into a JavaScript array:</p>
   <codeblock>
[2012, 7, 30, 23, 58, 22]
</codeblock>
   <p>The function can be particularly useful when building views using dates as the key where
    the use of a reduce function is being used for counting or rollup. </p>
   <p>Currently, the function works only on UTC values. Timezones are not supported.</p>
   <ul>
    <li><codeph>decodeBase64(doc)</codeph></li>
   </ul>
   <p>Converts a binary (base64) encoded value stored in the database into a string. This can
    be useful if you want to output or parse the contents of a document that has not been
    identified as a valid JSON value.</p>
   <ul>
    <li><codeph>sum(array)</codeph></li>
   </ul>
   <p>When supplied with an array containing numerical values, each value is summed and the
    resulting total is returned.</p>
   <p>For example:</p>
   <codeblock>
sum([12,34,56,78])
</codeblock>

 </conbody>
</concept>
