<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="views-writing-best">
 <title>Views best practices</title>
 <shortdesc>Several practices should be kept in mind with developing and deploying
  views.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  
   <p>Although you are free to write views matching your data, you should keep in mind the
    performance and storage implications of creating and organizing the different design
    document and view definitions.</p>
   <p>Keep in mind the following factors when developing and deploying views:</p>
   <ul>
    <li>View quality per design document</li>
    <li>Modifying existing views</li>
    <li>Don’t include document IDs</li>
    <li>Check document fields</li>
    <li>View Size, disk storage and I/O</li>
    <li>Include value data in views</li>
    <li>Don’t include entire documents in view output</li>
    <li>Use document types</li>
    <li>Use built-in Reduce functions</li>
   </ul>

    <section><title>View quality per design document</title>

   <p>Because the index for each map/reduce combination within each view within a given design
    document is updated at the same time, avoid declaring too many views within the same
    design document. For example, if you have a design document with five different views,
    all five views will be updated simultaneously, even if only one of the views is
    accessed.</p>
   <p>This can result in increase view index generation times, especially for frequently
    accessed views. Instead, move frequently used views out to a separate design
    document.</p>
   <p>The exact number of views per design document should be determined from a combination of
    the update frequency requirements on the included views and grouping of the view
    definitions. For example, if you have a view that needs to be updated with a high
    frequency (for example, comments on a blog post), and another view that needs to be
    updated less frequently (e.g. top blogposts), separate the views into two design
    documents so that the comments view can be updated frequently, and independently, of the
    other view.</p>
   <p>You can always configure the updating of the view through the use of the
    <codeph>stale</codeph> parameter. You can also configure different automated view
    update times for individual design documents</p>
     
    </section>
   

    <section><title>Modifying existing views</title>
   
   <p>If you modify an existing view definition, or are executing a full build on a
    development view, the entire view will need to be recreated. In addition, all the views
    defined within the same design document will also be recreated.</p>
   <p>Rebuilding all the views within a single design document is an expensive operation in
    terms of I/O and CPU requirements, as each document will need to be parsed by each views
    <codeph>map()</codeph> and <codeph>reduce()</codeph> functions, with the resulting
    index stored on disk.</p>
   <p>This process of rebuilding will occur across all the nodes within the cluster and
    increases the overall disk I/O and CPU requirements until the view has been recreated.
    This process will take place in addition to any production design documents and views
    that also need to be kept up to date.</p>
     
    </section>
   
   

    <section><title>Don’t include document IDs</title>
   
   <p>The document ID is automatically output by the view system when the view is accessed.
    When accessing a view without reduce enabled you can always determine the document ID of
    the document that generated the row. You should not include the document ID (from
    <codeph>meta.id</codeph> ) in your key or value data.</p>
    </section>
   

    <section><title>Check document fields</title>
   
   <p>Fields and attributes from source documentation in <codeph>map()</codeph> or
    <codeph>reduce()</codeph> functions should be checked before their value is checked
    or compared. This can cause issues because the view definitions in a design document are
    processed at the same time. A common cause of runtime errors in views is missing or
    invalid field and attribute checking.</p>
   <p>The most common issue is a field within a null object being accessed. This generates a
    runtime error that will cause execution of all views within the design document to fail.
    To address this problem, you should check for the existence of a given object before it
    is used, or the content value is checked. For example, the following view will fail if
    the <codeph>doc.ingredient</codeph> object does not exist, because accessing the
    <codeph>length</codeph> attribute on a null object will fail:</p>
   
   <codeblock>
function(doc, meta)
{
    emit(doc.ingredient.ingredtext, null);
}
</codeblock>
  
   <p>Adding a check for the parent object before calling <codeph>emit()</codeph> ensures that
    the function is not called unless the field in the source document exists:</p>
   <codeblock>
function(doc, meta)
{
  if (doc.ingredient)
  {
     emit(doc.ingredient.ingredtext, null);
  }
}
</codeblock>
   <p>The same check should be performed when comparing values within the <codeph>if</codeph>
    statement.</p>
   <p>This test should be performed on all objects where you are checking the attributes or
    child values (for example, indices of an array).</p>
    </section>

    <section><title>View Size, disk storage and I/O</title>
   
   <p>Within the map function, the information declared within your <codeph>emit()</codeph>
    statement is included in the view index data and stored on disk. Outputting this information has
    the following effects on your indexes:</p>
   <codeblock>* *Increased index size on disk* — More detailed or complex key/value combinations
  in generated views will result in more information being stored on disk.

* *Increased disk I/O* — in order to process and store the information on disk,
  and retrieve the data when the view is queried. A larger more complex key/value
  definition in your view will increase the overall disk I/O required both to
  update and read the data back.
</codeblock>
   
   <p>The result is that the index can be quite large, and in some cases, the size of the
    index can exceed the size of the original source data by a significant factor if
    multiple views are created, or you include large portions or the entire document data in
    the view output.</p>
   <p>For example, if each view contains the entire document as part of the value, and you
    define ten views, the size of your index files will be more than 10 times the size of
    the original data on which the view was created. With a 500-byte document and 1 million
    documents, the view index would be approximately 5GB with only 500MB of source data.</p>
    </section>
  <section><title>Limits on document sizes for indexing</title>
  
    <p>There are certain limits on the size of documents during indexing: </p><ul>
     <li>
      <codeph>indexer_max_doc_size</codeph>: Documents larger then this value are
      skipped by the indexer. A message is logged (with a document ID, its size,
      bucket name, view name, and so on) when such a document is encountered. A value
      of <codeph>0</codeph> indicated no limit while the current default value is
      1048576 bytes (1Mb). Since this is is already a very large value, these large
      documents take a long time to process slowing down the rebalancing.</li>
     <li><codeph>max_kv_size_per_doc</codeph>: The maximum total size (in bytes) of KV
      pairs that can be emitted for a single document for a single view. When such
      limit is passed, a message is logged (with a document ID, its size, bucket
      name, view name, and so on). A value of 0 indicated no limit while the current
      default value is 1048576 bytes (1Mb), which is already too large value and
      causes that all processes become inefficient.</li>
     <li><codeph>function_timeout</codeph>: The maximum time mapreduce functions can
      take for any one document. After this time elapses, the function invocation is
      aborted. The default limit is 10 seconds, and setting it to <codeph>0</codeph>
      will disable it (not recommended).</li>
    </ul>
     
   
   
  </section>

    <section><title>Include value data in views</title>
   
   <p>Views store both the key and value emitted by the <codeph>emit()</codeph>. To ensure the
    highest performance, views should only emit the minimum key data required to search and
    select information. The value output by <codeph>emit()</codeph> should only be used when
    you need the data to be used within a <codeph>reduce()</codeph>.</p>
   <p>You can obtain the document value by using the core Couchbase API to get individual
    documents or documents in bulk. Some SDKs can perform this operation for you
    automatically. </p>
   <p>Using this model will also prevent issues where the emitted view data may be
    inconsistent with the document state and your view is emitting value data from the
    document which is no longer stored in the document itself.</p>
   <p>For views that are not going to be used with reduce, you should output a null value:</p>
   <codeblock>
function(doc, meta)
    {
    if(doc.type == 'object')
    emit(doc.experience, null);
    }
</codeblock>
     
   <p>This creates an optimized view containing only the information required, ensuring
    the highest performance when updating the view, and smaller disk usage.</p>
    </section>
  
    <section><title>Don’t include entire documents in view output</title>
   
   <p>A view index should be designed to provide base information and through the implicitly
    returned document ID point to the source document. It is bad practice to include the
    entire document within your view output.</p>
   <p>You can always access the full document data through the client libraries by later
    requesting the individual document data. This is typically much faster than including
    the full document data in the view index, and enables you to optimize the index
    performance without sacrificing the ability to load the full document data.</p>
   <p>For example, the following is an example of a bad view:</p>
   <codeblock>
function(doc, meta)
    {
    if(doc.type == 'object')
    emit(doc.experience, doc);
    }
</codeblock>
   <p>The above view may have significant performance and index size effects.</p>
   <p>This will include the full document content in the index.</p>
   <p>Instead, the view should be defined as:</p>
   <codeblock>
function(doc, meta)
    {
    if(doc.type == 'object')
    emit(doc.experience, null);
    }
</codeblock>
   <p>You can then either access the document data individually through the client libraries,
    or by using the built-in client library option to separately obtain the document
    data.</p>
    </section>
  

    <section><title>Use document types</title>
   
   <p>If you are using a document type (by using a field in the stored JSON to indicate the
    document structure), be aware that on a large database this can mean that the view
    function is called to update the index for document types that are not being updated or
    added to the index.</p>
   <p>For example, within a database storing game objects with a standard list of objects, and
    the users that interact with them, you might use a field in the JSON to indicate
    ‘object’ or ‘player’. With a view that outputs information when the document is an
    object:</p>
   <codeblock>
function(doc, meta)
{
  emit(doc.experience, null);
}
</codeblock>
   <p>If only players are added to the bucket, the map/reduce functions to update this view
    will be executed when the view is updated, even though no new objects are being added to
    the database. Over time, this can add a significant overhead to the view building
    process.</p>
   <p>In a database organization like this, it can be easier from an application perspective
    to use separate buckets for the objects and players, and therefore completely separate
    view index update and structure without requiring to check the document type during
    progressing.</p>
    </section>
 
 
 
    <section><title>Use built-in Reduce functions</title>

   <p>Where possible, use one of the supplied built-in reduce functions,
    <codeph>_sum</codeph>, <codeph>_count</codeph>](#couchbase-views-writing-reduce-count),
    <codeph>_stats</codeph>](#couchbase-views-writing-reduce-stats).</p>
   <p>These functions are highly optimized. Using a custom reduce function requires additional
    processing and may impose additional build time on the production of the index.</p>
  </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
