<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic12355">
  <title>Translating SQL to MapReduce</title>
  <shortdesc>This section provides information on how to translate SQL to a MapReduce
		environment.</shortdesc>
  <body>
  	
  	<p>If you have existing SQL queries and need materialized reductions, you can follow the
			guidelines on this page for translating SQL queries to MapReduce views.</p>
  	
  	<note type="important">If you don't need materialized reductions, we recommend that you
			reformulate your SQL queries to use N1QL rather than MapReduce views. For more information
			about N1QL, see <xref href="../n1ql/index.dita#concept_g1x_jy3_mr" />.</note>
  	
  	<p>Here's an example of a SQL statement that you might want to translate:</p>
  	
    <codeblock><codeph>SELECT fieldlist FROM table
    WHERE condition
    GROUP BY groupfield
    ORDER BY orderfield
    LIMIT limitcount OFFSET offsetcount
</codeph></codeblock>
    <p>The different elements within the SQL statement affect how a view is written. The following
			table describes how each clause is handled in a MapReduce view:</p>
    <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_q4l_pzm_2r">
      <tgroup cols="2">
        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>SQL clause</entry>
            <entry>MapReduce</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>SELECT fieldlist</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The field list within the SQL statement affects either the corresponding key or
              value within the <codeph>map()</codeph> function, depending on whether you are also
              selecting or reducing your data. </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>FROM table</codeph></entry>
            <entry>There are no table compartments within Couchbase Server and you cannot perform
              views across more than one bucket boundary. However, if you are using a
                <codeph>type</codeph> field within your documents to identify different record
              types, then you may want to use the <codeph>map()</codeph> function to make a
              selection.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>WHERE condition</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The <codeph>map()</codeph> function and the data generated into the view key
              directly affect how you can query, and therefore how selection of records takes
              place.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>GROUP BY groupfield</codeph></entry>
            <entry>Grouping within SQL is handled within views through the use of the
                <codeph>reduce()</codeph> function.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>ORDER BY orderfield</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The order of record output within a view is directly controlled by the key
              specified during the <codeph>map()</codeph> function phase of the view
              generation.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>LIMIT limitcount OFFSET offsetcount</codeph></entry>
            <entry>There are a number of different paging strategies available within the MapReduce
							and views mechanism.</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
    
    <p>View <codeph>map()</codeph> function, <codeph>reduce()</codeph>
      function, selection parameters and other miscellaneous parameters have the following interactions:</p>

    
    <table>
      <tgroup cols="7">
        <colspec colname="col1"/>
        <colspec colname="col2"/>
        <colspec colname="col3"/>
        <colspec colname="col4"/>
        <colspec colname="col5"/>
        <colspec colname="col6"/>
        <colspec colname="col7"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>SQL clause</entry>
            <entry>View key</entry>
            <entry>View value</entry>
            <entry><codeph>map()</codeph> function</entry>
            <entry><codeph>reduce()</codeph> function</entry>
            <entry>Selection parameters</entry>
            <entry>Other parameters</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>SELECT fields</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
            <entry>No: with <codeph>GROUP BY</codeph> and <codeph>SUM()</codeph> or
                <codeph>COUNT()</codeph> functions only</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>FROM table</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>WHERE clause</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>ORDER BY field</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
            <entry><codeph>descending</codeph></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>LIMIT x OFFSET y</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
            <entry><codeph>limit</codeph>, <codeph>skip</codeph></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>GROUP BY field</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
            <entry>No </entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
    <p>Within SQL, the basic query structure can be used for a multitude of different queries. For
      example, the structure <codeph>SELECT fieldlist FROM table WHERE xxxx</codeph> can be used with a
      number of different clauses.</p>
    <p>Within MapReduce and Couchbase Server, you might need to create multiple views to handle different types of queries. For example, performing a query on all the blog posts on a specific
      date needs a very different view definition than one needed to support selection by the
      author.</p>
    
    
    
    
    <section><title>Translating SQL SELECT to MapReduce</title><p>The field selection within an SQL
        query can be translated into a corresponding view definition by:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Adding the fields to the emitted key if the value is also used for selection in a <codeph>WHERE</codeph>
          clause.</li>
        <li>Into the emitted value if the data is separate from the required query parameters.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>For example, to get the sales data by country from each stored document
        using the following <codeph>map()</codeph>
        function:</p><codeblock>function(doc, meta) {
  emit([doc.city, doc.sales], null);
}
</codeblock><p>If
        you want to output information that can be used within a reduce function, this should be
        specified in the value generated by each <codeph>emit()</codeph> call. For example, to
        reduce the sales figures the above <codeph>map()</codeph> function could be rewritten
        as:</p><codeblock>function(doc, meta) {
  emit(doc.city, doc.sales);
}
</codeblock><p>In
        essence this does not produce significantly different output (albeit with a simplified key),
        but the information can now be reduced using the numerical value.</p><p>If you want to
        output data or field values completely separate to the query values, then these fields can
        be explicitly output within the value portion of the view. For
        example:</p><codeblock>function(doc, meta) {
  emit(doc.city, [doc.name, doc.sales]);
}
</codeblock><p>If
        the entire document for each item is required, load the document data after the view has
        been requested through the client library. For more information on this parameter and the
        performance impact.</p><p>Within a <codeph>SELECT</codeph> statement it is
        common practice to include the primary key for a given record in the output. Within a view
        this is not normally required, since the document ID that generated each row is always
        included within the view
        output.</p></section>
    
    
    
    <section><title>Translating SQL WHERE to MapReduce</title><p>The <codeph>WHERE</codeph> clause
        within an SQL statement forms the selection criteria for choosing individual records. Within
        a view, the ability to query the data is controlled by the content and structure of the
          <codeph>key</codeph> generated by the <codeph>map()</codeph> function.</p><p>In general, for each <codeph>WHERE</codeph> clause you need to include the corresponding field in
				the key of the generated view, and then use the <codeph>key</codeph>,
					<codeph>keys</codeph> or <codeph>startkey</codeph> / <codeph>endkey</codeph>
				combinations to indicate the data you want to select. The complexity occurs when you
				need to perform queries on multiple fields. There are a number of different strategies
				that you can use for this.</p><p>The simplest way
        is to decide whether you want to be able to select a specific combination, or whether you
        want to perform range or multiple selections. For example, using our recipe database, if you
        want to select recipes that use the ingredient ‘carrot’ and have a cooking time of exactly
        20 minutes, then you can specify these two fields in the <codeph>map()</codeph>
        function:</p><codeblock><codeph>function(doc, meta)
{
  if (doc.ingredients)
  {
    for(i=0; i &lt; doc.ingredients.length; i++)
    {
      emit([doc.ingredients[i].ingredient, doc.totaltime], null);
    }
  }
}
</codeph></codeblock><p>Then
        the query is an array of the two selection
        values:</p><codeblock><codeph>?key=["carrot",20]
</codeph></codeblock><p>This is equivalent
        to the SQL
        query:</p><codeblock><codeph>SELECT recipeid FROM recipe JOIN ingredients on ingredients.recipeid = recipe.recipeid
    WHERE ingredient = 'carrot' AND totaltime = 20
</codeph></codeblock><p>If,
        however, you want to perform a query that selects recipes containing carrots that can be
        prepared in less than 20 minutes, a range query is possible with the same
          <codeph>map()</codeph>
        function:</p><codeblock><codeph>?startkey=["carrot",0]&amp;endkey=["carrot",20]
</codeph></codeblock><p>This works because of the sorting mechanism in a view, which outputs the information sequentially
				with carrots first and a sequential number.</p><p>More complex queries though are more difficult. What if you want to select
        recipes with carrots and rice, still preparable in under 20 minutes?</p><p>A standard <codeph>map()</codeph> function like that above wont work. A range query on both
				ingredients will list all the ingredients between the two. There are a number of
				solutions available to you. First, the easiest way to handle the timing selection is to
				create a view that explicitly selects recipes prepared within the specified time. Here's
				an example:</p><codeblock><codeph>function(doc, meta)
{
  if (doc.totaltime &lt;= 20)
  {
    ...
  }
}
</codeph></codeblock><p>Although this approach seems to severely limit your queries, remember you can create multiple
				views, so you could create one for 10 minutes, one for 20 minutes, one for 30 minutes,
				or whatever intervals you select. It’s unlikely that anyone will really want to select
				recipes that can be prepared in 17 minutes, so such granular selection is overkill.</p><p>The multiple ingredients is more
        difficult to solve. One way is to use the client to perform two queries and merge the data.
        For example, the <codeph>map()</codeph>
        function:</p><codeblock><codeph>function(doc, meta)
{
  if (doc.totaltime &amp;amp;&amp;amp; doc.totaltime &lt;= 20)
  {
    if (doc.ingredients)
    {
      for(i=0; i &lt; doc.ingredients.length; i++)
      {
        emit(doc.ingredients[i].ingredient, null);
      }
    }
  }
}
</codeph></codeblock><p>Two
        queries, one for each ingredient can easily be merged by performing a comparison and count
        on the document ID output by each view.</p><p>The alternative is to output the ingredients
        twice within a nested loop, like
        this:</p><codeblock><codeph>function(doc, meta)
{
  if (doc.totaltime &amp;amp;&amp;amp; doc.totaltime &lt;= 20)
  {
    if (doc.ingredients)
    {
      for (i=0; i &lt; doc.ingredients.length; i++)
      {
        for (j=0; j &lt; doc.ingredients.length; j++)
        {
          emit([doc.ingredients[i].ingredient, doc.ingredients[j].ingredient], null);
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
</codeph></codeblock><p>Now
        you can perform an explicit query on both
        ingredients:</p><codeblock><codeph>?key=["carrot","rice"]
</codeph></codeblock><p>If you
        really want to support flexible cooking times, then you can also add the cooking
        time:</p><codeblock><codeph>function(doc, meta)
{
  if (doc.ingredients)
  {
    for (i=0; i &lt; doc.ingredients.length; i++)
    {
      for (j=0; j &lt; doc.ingredients.length; j++)
      {
        emit([doc.ingredients[i].ingredient, doc.ingredients[j].ingredient, recipe.totaltime], null);
      }
    }
  }
}
</codeph></codeblock><p>And
        now you can support a ranged query on the cooking time with the two ingredient
        selection:</p><codeblock><codeph>?startkey=["carrot","rice",0]&amp;key=["carrot","rice",20]
</codeph></codeblock><p>This
        would be equivalent
        to:</p><codeblock><codeph>SELECT recipeid FROM recipe JOIN ingredients on ingredients.recipeid = recipe.recipeid
    WHERE (ingredient = 'carrot' OR ingredient = 'rice') AND totaltime = 20
</codeph></codeblock></section>
    
    
    
    <section><title>Translating SQL ORDER BY to MapReduce</title><p>The <codeph>ORDER BY</codeph>
        clause within SQL controls the order of the records that are output. Ordering within a view
        is controlled by the value of the key. However, the key also controls and supports the
        querying mechanism.</p><p>In <codeph>SELECT</codeph> statements where there is no explicit
          <codeph>WHERE</codeph> clause, the emitted key can entirely support the sorting you want.
        For example, to sort by the city and salesman name, the following <codeph>map()</codeph>
        will achieve the required
        sorting:</p><codeblock><codeph>function(doc, meta)
{
   emit([doc.city, doc.name], null)
}
</codeph></codeblock><p>If
        you need to query on a value, and that query specification is part of the order sequence
        then you can use the format above. For example, if the query basis is city, then you can
        extract all the records for ‘London’ using the above view and a suitable range
        query:</p><codeblock><codeph>?endkey=["London\u0fff"]&amp;startkey=["London"]
</codeph></codeblock><p>However,
        if you want to query the view by the salesman name, you need to reverse the field order in
        the <codeph>emit()</codeph>
        statement:</p><codeblock><codeph>function(doc, meta)
{
   emit([doc.name,doc.city],null)
}
</codeph></codeblock><p>Now
        you can search for a name while still getting the information in city order.</p><p>The order
        the output can be reversed (equivalent to <codeph>ORDER BY field DESC</codeph> ) by using
        the <codeph>descending</codeph> query parameter. </p></section>
    
    
    
    <section><title>Translating SQL GROUP BY to MapReduce</title><p>The <codeph>GROUP BY</codeph>
        parameter within SQL provides summary information for a group of matching records according
        to the specified fields, often for use with a numeric field for a sum or total value, or
        count operation.</p><p>For
        example:</p><codeblock><codeph>SELECT name,city,SUM(sales) FROM sales GROUP BY name,city
</codeph></codeblock><p>This query groups the information by the two fields ‘name’ and ‘city’ and produces a sum total of
				these values. To translate this into a MapReduce function within Couchbase Server:</p><ul>
        <li><p>From the list of selected fields, identify the field used for the calculation. These
            will need to be exposed within the value emitted by the <codeph>map()</codeph>
            function.</p></li>
        <li><p>Identify the list of fields in the <codeph>GROUP BY</codeph> clause. These will need
            to be output within the key of the <codeph>map()</codeph> function.</p></li>
        <li><p>Identify the grouping function, for example <codeph>SUM()</codeph> or
              <codeph>COUNT()</codeph>. You will need to use the equivalent built-in function, or a
            custom function, within the <codeph>reduce()</codeph> function of the view.</p></li>
      </ul><p>For example, in the above case, the corresponding map function can be written as
          <codeph>map()</codeph>
        :</p><codeblock><codeph>function(doc, meta)
{
   emit([doc.name,doc.city],doc.sales);
}
</codeph></codeblock><p>This
        outputs the name and city as the key, and the sales as the value. Because the
          <codeph>SUM()</codeph> function is used, the built-in <codeph>reduce()</codeph> function
          <codeph>_sum</codeph> can be used.</p><p>An example of this MapReduce combination can be seen <codeph>_sum</codeph>.</p><p>More complex grouping operations may require a custom reduce function.
        </p></section>
    
    
    
    <section><title>Translating SQL LIMIT and OFFSET</title><p>Within SQL, the
          <codeph>LIMIT</codeph> and <codeph>OFFSET</codeph> clauses to a given query are used as a
        paging mechanism. For example, you might
        use:</p><codeblock><codeph>SELECT recipeid,title FROM recipes LIMIT 100</codeph></codeblock><p>To
        get the first 100 rows from the database, and then use the <codeph>OFFSET</codeph> to get
        the subsequent groups of
        records:</p><codeblock><codeph>SELECT recipeid,title FROM recipes LIMIT 100 OFFSET 100</codeph></codeblock><p>With
        Couchbase Server, the <codeph>limit</codeph> and <codeph>skip</codeph> parameters when
        supplied to the query provide the same basic
        functionality:</p><codeblock><codeph>?limit=100&amp;skip=100</codeph></codeblock><p>Performance
        for high values of skip can be affected.</p></section>
  </body>
 
</topic>
