<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="cbbackup-tool">
   <title><cmdname>cbbackup</cmdname></title>
   <shortdesc>The <cmdname>cbbackup</cmdname> tool creates a copy of data from an entire running cluster,
      an entire bucket, a single node, or a single bucket on a single functioning node.</shortdesc>
   
   <refbody>
      <section><title>Syntax</title>
         <p>The basic syntax is:</p>
         <codeblock>cbbackup [options] [backup-dir] [destination] -u [admin] -p [password]</codeblock>
         
         <p>Where:</p>
         <ul>
            <li><codeph>[backup-dir]</codeph><p>The directory for the backup files to be stored. If
                  an empty directory doesn't exist,  it will be created; the parent directory
                     <b>must</b> exist.</p></li>
         </ul>   
        <p>The following syntax example includes a full backup and two incremental backups for a
            cluster:</p>
         
         <codeblock>cbbackup http://HOST:8091 /backup-42 -u Administrator -p password
cbbackup http://HOST:8091 /backup-42 -u Administrator -p password
cbbackup http://HOST:8091 /backup-42 -u Administrator -p password			</codeblock>
         
         <note type="note">If the backup directory exists, the following backup command will be
            automatically incremented. The only way to generate a full backup is to choose an unused
            directory.</note>
         
         <p>The following syntax example include a full backup, two differential backups, and one
            accumulative backup for a single node.</p>
         <codeblock>cbbackup couchbase://HOST:8091 /backup-43 [-m full] --single-node -u Administrator -p password
cbbackup couchbase://HOST:8091 /backup-43 [-m diff] --single-node -u Administrator -p password 
cbbackup couchbase://HOST:8091 /backup-43 [-m diff] --single-node -u Administrator -p password  
cbbackup couchbase://HOST:8091 /backup-43 [-m accu] --single-node -u Administrator -p password </codeblock>
         
         <note type="note">After backing up and restoring a cluster, be sure to rebuild your
            indexes. <p>See <xref href="../indexes/indexing-overview.dita#concept_ssb_qhb_ys"/>for
               more information. </p></note>
         <p>Syntax example of a full backup plus two differentials and one accumulative for a single node.</p>
         
         <codeblock>cbbackup couchbase://HOST:8091 /backup-43 [-m full] --single-node -u Administrator -p password \  
cbbackup couchbase://HOST:8091 /backup-43 [-m diff] --single-nodecbbackup \
couchbase://HOST:8091 /backup-43 [-m diff] --single-node -u Administrator -p password \
cbbackup couchbase://HOST:8091 /backup-43 -m accu --single-node -u Administrator -p password]			</codeblock>
         
         <note type="note">A full backup task is always triggered for a new sink location no matter what backup mode is specified.</note>
          
      </section><section><title>Description</title>
      <p>The backup process writes a copy of data onto the disk. To create a backup using
               <codeph>cbbackup</codeph>, the node or cluster needs to be functional.</p>

      <p>The <codeph>cbbackup</codeph>, <codeph>cbrestore</codeph>, and <codeph>cbtransfer</codeph>
         tools do not communicate with external IP addresses for server nodes outside of a cluster.
         Backup, restore, or transfer operations are performed on data from a node within a
         Couchbase Server cluster. They only communicate with nodes from a node list obtained within a
         cluster. This also means that if Couchbase Server is installed with a default IP address,
         an external hostname cannot be used to access it.</p>
         
         <p>This tool has several different options which you can use to:</p>
         <ul>
            <li>Backup all buckets in an entire cluster</li>
            <li>Backup one named bucket in a cluster</li>
            <li>Backup all buckets on a node in a cluster</li>
            <li>Backup one named buckets on a specified node</li>
         </ul>
         
         <note type="tip">We recommended that <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> output be generated on a file system 
            local to the server. Specifically, back up to a dedicated partition. 
            A dedicated partition prevents the backup from filling the Couchbase Server data stores and operating system partitions.</note>
         
         
         <note type="caution">Avoid routing the <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> output to remote share
            file systems (NFS). This is because <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> files are based on sqlite
            format which  have issues being written to remote file systems.</note>
        
         
      <p>This tool is located in the following directories:</p>

      <table>
         <tgroup cols="2">
               <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
               <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
               <thead>
                  <row>
                     <entry>Operating system</entry>
                     <entry>Location</entry>
                  </row>
               </thead>
               <tbody>
                  <row>
                     <entry>Linux</entry>
                     <entry><codeph>/opt/couchbase/bin/cbbackup</codeph></entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>Windows</entry>
                     <entry><codeph>C:\Program Files\Couchbase\Server\bin\cbbackup</codeph></entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>Mac OS X</entry>
                     <entry><codeph>/Applications/Couchbase Server.app/Contents/Resources/couchbase-core/bin/cbbackup</codeph></entry>
                  </row>
               </tbody>
            </tgroup>
      </table>
      
      
      </section>
      
      
       
      <section><title>Options</title>
  

      
         <p>The following are the command options:</p>
      <table>
         <title>cbbackup options</title>
         <tgroup cols="2">
               <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
               <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1*"/>
               <thead>
                  <row>
                     <entry>Parameters</entry>
                     <entry>Description</entry>
                  </row>
               </thead>
               <tbody>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>-h, --help</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Command line help.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>-b BUCKET_SOURCE, --bucket-source=BUCKET_SOURCE</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Single named bucket from source cluster to transfer. If the backup
                        directory only contains a single bucket, then that bucket is automatically
                        used.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>--single-node</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Use a single server node from the source only, not all server nodes from
                        the entire cluster. This single server node is defined by the source
                        URL.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>-m MODE</codeph>, <codeph>--mode=MODE</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Backup mode. The mode option takes any one of the following values: <dl>
                           <dlentry>
                              <dt><codeph>full</codeph></dt>
                              <dd>Perform a full backup</dd>
                           </dlentry>
                           <dlentry>
                              <dt><codeph>diff</codeph></dt>
                              <dd>Perform a differential incremental backup, which backs up only the
                                 changes since the last full or incremental backup.</dd>
                           </dlentry>
                           <dlentry>
                              <dt><codeph>accu</codeph></dt>
                              <dd>Perform a cumulative incremental backup, which backs up all
                                 changes since the last full backup.</dd>
                           </dlentry>
                        </dl></entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>-i ID, --id=ID</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Transfer only items that match a vbucket ID.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>-k KEY, --key=KEY</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Transfer only items with keys that match a regular expression.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>-n, --dry-run</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>No actual transfer. Just validate parameters, files, connectivity and
                        configurations.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>-u USERNAME, --username=USERNAME</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>REST username for source cluster or server node.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>-p PASSWORD, --password=PASSWORD</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>REST password for cluster or server node.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>-t THREADS, --threads=THREADS</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Number of concurrent workers threads performing the transfer. </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>-v, --verbose</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Verbose logging. More v's provide more verbosity. Max: -vvv.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>-x EXTRA, --extra=EXTRA</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Provide extra, uncommon configuration parameters. Comma-separated
                        key=val(key-val)* pairs.</entry>
                  </row>
               </tbody>
            </tgroup>
      </table>
      <p>The following are extra, specialized command options with the <codeph>cbbackup -x</codeph>
            parameter.</p>
      
      <table>
         <title>cbbackup -x options</title>
         <tgroup cols="2">
               <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
               <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2*"/>
               <thead>
                  <row>
                     <entry>-x options</entry>
                     <entry>Description</entry>
                  </row>
               </thead>
               <tbody>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>backoff_cap=10</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Maximum backoff time during the rebalance period.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>batch_max_bytes=400000</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Transfer this # of bytes per batch.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>batch_max_size=1000</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Transfer this # of documents per batch.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>cbb_max_mb=100000</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Split backup file on destination cluster if it exceeds the MB.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>conflict_resolve=1</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>By default, disable conflict resolution. <p>* This option doesn't work
                           in Couchbase Server versions 4.0 and 4.1 but will be re-implemented in
                           version 4.1.1 and in subsequent versions.</p></entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>data_only=0</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>For value 1, transfer only data from a backup file or cluster.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>design_doc_only=0</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>For value 1, transfer only design documents from a backup file or
                        cluster. Default: 0.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>max_retry=10</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Max number of sequential retries if the transfer fails.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>mcd_compatible=1</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>For value 0, display extended fields for stdout output.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>nmv_retry=1</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>0 or 1, where 1 retries transfer after a NOT_MY_VBUCKET message.
                        Default: 1.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>recv_min_bytes=4096</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Amount of bytes for every TCP/IP batch transferred.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>rehash=0</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>For value 1, rehash the partition id's of each item. This is required
                        when transferring data between clusters with different number of partitions,
                        such as when transferring data from an Mac OS X server to a non-Mac OS X
                        cluster.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>report=5</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Number batches transferred before updating progress bar in
                        console.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>report_full=2000</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Number batches transferred before emitting progress information in
                        console.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>seqno=0</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>By default, start seqno from beginning.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>try_xwm=1</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Transfer documents with metadata. Default: 1. Value of 0 is only used
                        when transferring from 1.8.x to 1.8.x.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>uncompress=0</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>For value 1, restore data in uncompressed mode.</entry>
                  </row>
               </tbody>
            </tgroup>
      </table>
         
         <note type="note">Back up only design documents from a cluster or bucket with the option,
            <codeph>design_doc_only=1</codeph>. Restore only design documents with
            <codeph>cbrestore design_doc_only=1</codeph>.
    
     </note>    
         
        </section>
      
    
      
      
      <section><title>Examples</title>
            <p><b>Example 1:</b></p>
     <p>An entire cluster can be backed up. This includes all of the data buckets and data
            at all nodes and all design documents. To backup an entire cluster and all buckets for
            that
            cluster:</p><codeblock>cbbackup http://HOST:8091 ~/backups -u Administrator -p password
</codeblock><p>Where
               <codeph>~/backups</codeph> is the directory where you want to store the data. When
            this operation is performed, be aware that cbbackup creates the following directory
            structure and files in the <codeph>~/backups</codeph> directory assuming there two
            buckets in the cluster named <codeph>my_name</codeph> and <codeph>sasl</codeph> and two
            nodes <codeph>N1</codeph> and <codeph>N2</codeph>
            :</p><codeblock>~/backups
        bucket-my_name
            N1
            N2
        bucket-sasl
            N1
            N2</codeblock><p>Where
               <codeph>bucket-my_name</codeph> and <codeph>bucket-sasl</codeph> are directories
            containing data files and where <codeph>N1</codeph> and <codeph>N2</codeph> are two sets
            of data files for each node in the cluster. </p>
            <p><b>Example 2:</b></p>
         <p>To backup a single bucket in a
            cluster:</p><codeblock>cbbackup http://HOST:8091 /backups/backup-20120501 -u Administrator -p password \ 
 -b default</codeblock><p>In
            this case, the default bucket in the cluster is specified and the data from the default
            bucket is backed up. </p>
            <p><b>Example 3:</b></p>
         <p>To backup all data from multiple buckets on a single node:</p><codeblock>&gt; cbbackup http://HOST:8091 /backups/ -u Administrator -p password \   
 --single-node</codeblock>
            <p><b>Example 4:</b></p>
         <p>To backup data from a single bucket on a single node:</p><codeblock>cbbackup http://HOST:8091 /backups -u Administrator -p password \
 --single-node  -b bucket_name</codeblock>
            <p><b>Example 5:</b></p>
         <p>To specify the keys that are backed up using the <codeph>- k</codeph> option. For
            example, to backup all keys from a bucket with the prefix
            ‘object’:</p><codeblock>&gt; cbbackup http://HOST:8091 /backups/backup-20120501 -u Administrator -p password \ 
 -b bucket_name -k '^object.*'</codeblock>
         <p><b>Example 6:</b></p>
      
         <p>The following example creates a backup copy
            of all design documents from <codeph>foo-bucket</codeph> and store this as
            <codeph>design.json</codeph> in the directory <codeph>~/backup/foo-bucket</codeph>.
            If a bucket is not specified, design documents for all buckets in the cluster are backed
            up. </p>
         
         <codeblock>cbbackup http://10.5.2.117:8091 ~/backup -x design_doc_only=1 -u Administrator -p password</codeblock>
         
         
         
         
         <p>Response</p>
         <p>The following example response shows only design documents for all buckets being backed up. 
            In this case, the source node had two (2) buckets including the default bucket.</p>
         <codeblock>transfer design doc only. bucket msgs will be skipped.
transfer design doc only. bucket msgs will be skipped.
done       </codeblock>
         
         <p>In the following output, two design documents were backed up.</p>
         
         <codeblock>[
   {
      "controllers":{
         "compact":"/pools/default/buckets/default/ddocs/_design%2Fddoc1/controller/compactView",
         "setUpdateMinChanges":"/pools/default/buckets/default/ddocs/_design%2Fddoc1/controller/setUpdateMinChanges"
      },
      "doc":{
         "json":{
            "views":{
               "view1":{
                  "map":"function(doc){emit(doc.key,doc.key_num);}"
               },
               "view2":{
                  "map":"function(doc,meta){emit(meta.id,doc.key);}"
               }
            }
         },
         "meta":{
            "rev":"1-6f9bfe0a",
            "id":"_design/ddoc1"
         }
      }
   },
   {
      "controllers":{
         "compact":"/pools/default/buckets/default/ddocs/_design%2Fddoc2/controller/compactView",
         "setUpdateMinChanges":"/pools/default/buckets/default/ddocs/_design%2Fddoc2/controller/setUpdateMinChanges"
      },
      "doc":{
         "json":{
            "views":{
               "dothis":{
                  "map":"function (doc, meta) {\n  emit(meta.id, null);\n}"
               }
            }
         },
         "meta":{
            "rev":"1-4b533871",
            "id":"_design/ddoc2"
         }
      }
   },
   {
      "controllers":{
         "compact":"/pools/default/buckets/default/ddocs/_design%2Fdev_ddoc2/controller/compactView",
         "setUpdateMinChanges":"/pools/default/buckets/default/ddocs/_design%2Fdev_ddoc2/controller/setUpdateMinChanges"
      },
      "doc":{
         "json":{
            "views":{
               "dothat":{
                  "map":"function (doc, meta) {\n  emit(meta.id, null);\n}"
               }
            }
         },
         "meta":{
            "rev":"1-a8b6f59b",
            "id":"_design/dev_ddoc2"
         }
      }
   }
]
</codeblock>     
      <p><b>Example 7:</b></p>
         <p>The following example requests a full backup of all the data on the specified cluster:</p>
         <codeblock>cbbackup -m full http://example.com:8091 /backups/backup-1 -u Administrator -p password</codeblock>
         
         
         <p>After an initial full backup, incremental backups can be performed. 
            This example requests a differential incremental backup of all the data on the specified cluster:</p>
         <codeblock>cbbackup -m diff http://example.com:8091 /backups/backup-1 -u Administrator -p password</codeblock>
         
         <p>This example requests a cumulative incremental backup of all the data on the specified cluster:</p>
         <codeblock>cbbackup -m accu http://example.com:8091 /backups/backup-1 -u Administrator -p password</codeblock>    
      
      
      </section>
     
      
   </refbody>

</reference>
