<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="cbcli-intro">
	<title><cmdname>couchbase-cli</cmdname></title>
	<shortdesc>The <cmdname>couchbase-cli</cmdname> tool is used to perform operations both on single
		nodes or on entire clusters.</shortdesc>
	<refbody>
		<section><title>Syntax</title>
			<p>The basic syntax is:</p>
			<codeblock>couchbase-cli COMMAND CLUSTER [options]		</codeblock>
			<p>Where:</p>
			<ul>
				<li><codeph>COMMAND</codeph> is a CLI command. </li>
				<li><codeph>CLUSTER</codeph> is a cluster specification. The following shows both
					short and long form syntax:</li>
			</ul>
			<codeblock><codeph>// Short form
    -c [host]:[port]
// Long form
    --cluster=[host]:[port]
</codeph></codeblock>
		</section>
		<section><title>Description</title>
			<p>The <cmdname>couchbase-cli</cmdname> tool is located in the specific paths, depending on the
				platform. It can perform operations on an entire cluster, on a bucket shared across
				an entire cluster, or on a single node in a cluster. For instance, if this tool is
				used to create a data bucket, all nodes in the cluster have access to the
				bucket.</p>
		<note type="note">Many of the <cmdname>couchbase-cli </cmdname>commands can be performed using the
				REST API.</note>

		
			
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Options</title>
			<p>The following are the command options:</p>
			<table>
				<title>couchbase-cli options</title>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
					<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2*"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Option</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>-u USERNAME</codeph>,
								<codeph>--user=USERNAME</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Admin username of the cluster.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>-p PASSWORD</codeph>,
									<codeph>--password=PASSWORD</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Admin password of the cluster.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>-o KIND</codeph>, <codeph>--output=KIND</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Type of document: JSON or standard.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>-d</codeph>, <codeph>--debug</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Output debug information.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>-h</codeph>, <codeph>--help</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Help information.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>-s</codeph>, <codeph>--ssl</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Uses SSL for communication with secure servers. </entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
			
			<note type="note">The username can set be in the environment variable <varname>CB_REST_USERNAME</varname> and 
			the password can be set in the environment variable <varname>CB_REST_PASSWORD</varname>.</note>
		</section>
		
	
		
		
	</refbody>
	
</reference>
