<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_iwl_zy4_1v">
  <title>cbft-bleve-dump</title>
  <body>
  <p>The cbft-bleve-dump utility allows you to print all the rows in the specified index. This is
      helpful for troubleshooting because the index or index fragments can be examined without
      access to the Couchbase Server. </p>
    <p><note>The paramter <codeph>-index</codeph> is required (not optional) and it specifies the
        path to the index to dump. The remaining parameters describe special modes and are
        optional.</note><table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_sxy_ccp_1v">
        <title>cbft-bleve-dump parameters</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="3.04*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Parameters</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>-index</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Required. Specifies the path to the index to dump. </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>-dictionary</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Optional. Prints the term dictionary for the specified field. </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>-docID</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Optional. Print all the rows pertaining to the single specified
                document.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>-fields</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Optional. Print the field names and field ids in the index.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>-mapping</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Optional. Print a JSON serialization of the index mapping.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>If none of these alternate modes have been specified it will dump all rows in the
      index.</p>
  <p><b>Permission Required</b></p>
  <p>This command line tool only accesses data via the file system.  Ensure that you have the
      appropriate permissions from the host OS.</p>
<codeblock spectitle="Sample Usage">/opt/couchbase/bin/cbft-bleve-dump -mapping -index default_index_36f4f5d91743e793_1000041c.pindex/
    
{
"default_mapping":
Unknown macro: { "enabled"}
,
"type_field": "_type",
"default_type": "_default",
"default_analyzer": "standard",
"default_datetime_parser": "dateTimeOptional",
"default_field": "_all",
"byte_array_converter": "json",
"analysis": {}
}</codeblock>
    <codeblock spectitle="Sample: dictionary term">$ cbft-bleve-dump -dictionary name -index default_index_44be2a419953e436_0a44bddb.pindex/ | awk '{print $3 ", " $1}' | sort -n -r | head -10</codeblock>
    <p>This example prints the top ten terms listing along with the number of occurrences. </p>
  </body>
</topic>
