<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="cbreset_password_tool">
	<title><cmdname>cbreset_password</cmdname></title>
	<shortdesc>The <cmdname>cbreset_password</cmdname> tool is used to reset an administrative or
		read-only user password.</shortdesc>
	<refbody>
		<section><title>Syntax</title>
			<p>The basic syntax to reset the administrative password:</p>
			<codeblock>cbreset_password [hostname]:[port]</codeblock>
			<p>This results in output as follows:</p>
			<codeblock>Please enter the new administrative password (or &lt;Enter&gt; for system generated password):</codeblock>
			<p>Enter a password of six characters or more or accept the system generated password.
				After entering a password or accepting a generated one, the system prompts for
				confirmation:</p>
			<codeblock>Running this command will reset administrative password.
Do you really want to do it? (yes/no)yes</codeblock>
		</section><section><title>Description</title>
		<p>This tool is found in the following locations, depending upon your platform:</p>
		<table>
			<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
					<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="3*"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Operating System</entry>
							<entry>Location</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>Linux</entry>
							<entry><filepath>/opt/couchbase/bin/</filepath></entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>Windows</entry>
							<entry><filepath>C:\Program Files\Couchbase\Server\bin\</filepath></entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>Mac OS X</entry>
							<entry><filepath>/Applications/Couchbase Server.app/Contents/Resources/couchbase-core/bin/</filepath></entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
		</table>
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Options</title>
			
			<p>None</p>
			
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Example</title>
			<p>Reset the password and shows a successful response.</p>
			<codeblock># cbreset_password 10.5.2.117:8091

Please enter the new administrative password (or &lt;Enter&gt; for system generated password):

Running this command will reset administrative password.
Do you really want to do it? (yes/no)yes
Resetting administrative password...
Password for user Administrator was successfully replaced.			</codeblock>
		<p><b>Response</b></p>
		<p>The following example response shows a system generated password.</p>
		<codeblock>Resetting administrative password...
Password for user Administrator was successfully replaced. New password is Uxye76FJ</codeblock>
	<p><b>Response errors</b></p>
		<p>There are a few possible errors from this command:</p>
		<codeblock>{error,&lt;&lt;"The password must be at least six characters."&gt;&gt;}

{error,&lt;&lt;"Failed to reset administrative password. Node is not initialized."&gt;&gt;}</codeblock>
		<p>The first error message indicates that the password wasn't long enough. The second
			error message indicates that Couchbase Server is not yet configured and running.</p>
		</section>
	</refbody>
</reference>
