<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_zpr_m1h_hq">
  <title><codeph>rehash=1</codeph></title>
  <shortdesc>Data is restored to an operating system that is different from the backup operating
    system using the <cmdname>cbrestore</cmdname> tool with the <codeph>restore=1</codeph>
    option.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <p>To restore the data to a cluster with a different operating system, connect to the 8091
        port, and use the <codeph>rehash=1</codeph> option to rehash the information and distribute
        the data to the appropriate node within the cluster. <codeph>rehash=1</codeph> rehashes the
        partition IDs of each item. This is required when transferring data between clusters with a
        different number of partitions, such as when transferring data from a Mac OS X server to a
        non-Mac OS X cluster.</p>
      <codeblock>cbrestore backup  -u [username] -p [password]  
  -x rehash=1
  http://[host]:8091 
  --bucket-source [my_bucket] 
  --bucket-destination [my_bucket]</codeblock>
      <note type="note">If you backed up multiple buckets from Mac OS X and are restoring to either
        Linux or Windows, each bucket must be restored individually.</note>
    </section> <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>Couchbase Server on Mac OS X uses a different number of configured vBuckets than Linux and
        Windows installations. Because of this, restoring to Mac OS X from a Linux or Windows backup
        or restoring to Linux/Windows from a Mac OS X backup requires the <codeph>rehash=1</codeph>
        option.</p>
      
      <p>To backup the data (from any operating system), use the
        standard <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> tool and options.</p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Examples</title>
      
      <p>To back up data from Mac OS X:</p>
      <codeblock>cbbackup http://[Administrator]:[password]@[mac-hostname]:8091 \
/macbackup/today</codeblock>
      
      <p>To back up data from Linux:</p>
      <codeblock>cbbackup [Administrator]:[password]@[linux-hostname]:8091 \
/linuxbackup/today</codeblock>
    </section>
    
    
   
  </refbody>
</reference>
