<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_q3t_bxw_fp">
  <title>Restoring with cbrestore</title>
  <shortdesc>To restore bucket data that was backed up using the command <cmdname>cbbackup</cmdname>, 
    use the command <cmdname>cbrestore</cmdname> to restore information into a bucket on a new cluster. </shortdesc>
  <body>

    
    <p>When restoring a backup, you have to select the appropriate restore sequence based on the
      type of restore you are performing. The available methods when restoring a cluster depend on
      the method used to back up the cluster. </p>
    
    <p>If <cmdname>cbbackup</cmdname> was used to backup the bucket data, you could restore back to
      a cluster with the same or different configuration. This is because
        <cmdname>cbbackup</cmdname> stores information about the stored bucket data in a format that
      enables it to be restored back into a bucket on a new cluster. </p>
    
    <note type="note">If the information was backed up using a direct file copy, then you must restore
    the information back to an identical cluster.</note>

    
    <p>The <cmdname>cbrestore</cmdname> command takes the information that has been backed up via
      the <cmdname>cbbackup</cmdname>> command and streams the stored data into a cluster. The
      cluster configuration does not have to match the one used when the data was backed up. It can
      be used when transferring information to a new cluster or updated or expanded version of the
      existing cluster in the event of disaster recovery.</p>
    
    <p>Because the data can be flexibly restored, it provides for a number of different scenarios to
      be executed on the data that has been backed up:</p>
    
    <ul>
      <li>Restoring data into a cluster of a different size and configuration.</li>
      <li>Transferring or restoring data into a different bucket on the same or
        different cluster.</li>
      <li>Restoring a selected portion of the data into a new or different
        cluster, or the same cluster but a different bucket.</li>
    </ul>

    
    <p>The basic format of the <cmdname>cbrestore</cmdname> command is as follows:</p>

<codeblock>cbrestore [options] [source] [destination]</codeblock>
    
    <p>Where:</p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>[options]</dt>
        <dd>Options specifying how the information should be restored into the cluster. Common options include:
          <ul>
            <li><codeph>--bucket-source </codeph><p>Specify the name of the bucket data to be read
                from the backup data that will be restored.</p></li>
            <li><codeph>--bucket-destination</codeph>
              <p>Specify the name of the bucket the data will be written to. If this option is not
                specified, the data will be written to a bucket with the same name as the source
                bucket.</p></li>
            <li><codeph>--add </codeph><p>Use <codeph>--add</codeph> instead of
                  <codeph>--set</codeph> to avoid overwriting the existing items in the
                destination.</p></li>
          </ul></dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>[source]</dt>
        <dd>The backup directory specified to <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> where the backup data was stored.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>[destination]</dt>
        <dd>The REST API URL of a node within the cluster where the information will be
          restored.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
   
    
    <p>The <cmdname>cbrestore</cmdname> command restores only a single bucket of data at a time. If you
    have created a backup of an entire cluster (such as all buckets), then you must
    restore each bucket individually back to the cluster. All destination buckets
    must already exist since <cmdname>cbrestore</cmdname> does not create or configure destination buckets
    for you.</p>
    
    <p>For example, to restore a single bucket of data to a cluster:</p>
    
    
<codeblock>cbrestore \
    /backups/backup-2012-05-10 \
    http://Administrator:password@HOST:8091 \
    --bucket-source=XXX
    [####################] 100.0% (231726/231726 msgs)
    bucket: default, msgs transferred...
    :                total |       last |    per sec
    batch :                  232 |        232 |       33.1
    byte  :             10247683 |   10247683 |  1462020.7
    msg   :               231726 |     231726 |    33060.0
    done</codeblock>
    
    <p>To restore the bucket data to a different bucket on the cluster:</p>
    
    
<codeblock>cbrestore \
    /backups/backup-2012-05-10 \
    http://Administrator:password@HOST:8091 \
    --bucket-source=XXX \
    --bucket-destination=YYY
    [####################] 100.0% (231726/231726 msgs)
    bucket: default, msgs transferred...
    :                total |       last |    per sec
    batch :                  232 |        232 |       33.1
    byte  :             10247683 |   10247683 |  1462020.7
    msg   :               231726 |     231726 |    33060.0
    done</codeblock>
    
    <p>The <codeph>msg</codeph> count in this case is the number of documents restored back to the
    bucket in the cluster.</p>
    
    <section><title>Filtering keys during restore</title> The <cmdname>cbrestore</cmdname> command
      includes support for filtering the keys that are restored to the database from the files that
      were created during backup. This is in addition to the filtering support available during
      backup). <p>The specification is in the form of a regular expression supplied as an option to
        the <cmdname>cbrestore</cmdname> command. For example, to restore information to a bucket
        only where the keys have an <codeph>object</codeph> prefix:
        </p><codeblock>cbrestore /backups/backup-20120501 http://HOST:8091 \
    -u Administrator -p password \
    -b default \
    -k '^object.*'
    2013-02-18 10:39:09,476: w0 skipping msg with key: sales_7597_3783_6
    ...
    2013-02-18 10:39:09,476: w0 skipping msg with key: sales_5575_3699_6
    2013-02-18 10:39:09,476: w0 skipping msg with key: sales_7597_3840_6
    [                    ] 0.0% (0/231726 msgs)
    bucket: default, msgs transferred...
    :                total |       last |    per sec
    batch :                    1 |          1 |        0.1
    byte  :                    0 |          0 |        0.0
    msg   :                    0 |          0 |        0.0
    done </codeblock><p>This
        copies only the keys matching the specified prefix into the <varname>default</varname>
        bucket. For each key skipped, an information message is provided. The remaining output shows
        the records transferred and summary as normal. </p></section>
    
    <section><title>Restoring using file copies</title>To restore the information to the same
      cluster with the same configuration, shut down your entire cluster while you restore the data
      and then restart the cluster again. In this case, you are replacing the entire cluster data
      and configuration with the backed up version of the data files, and then restarting the
      cluster with the saved version of the cluster files. <note type="important">Make sure that any
        restoration of files also sets the proper ownership of those files to the Couchbase
        user.</note><p>When restoring data back in the same cluster, verify the following: <ul>
          <li>Backup and restore must use the same version of Couchbase Server.</li>
          <li>The cluster must contain the same number of nodes.</li>
          <li>Each node must have the same IP address or hostname it was configured with when the
            cluster was backed up.</li>
          <li>All <codeph>config.dat</codeph> configuration files as well as all database files must
            be restored to their original locations.</li>
        </ul></p><p>The steps required to complete the restore process are: </p><ol>
        <li>Stop the Couchbase Server service on all nodes.</li>
        <li>On each node, restore the database, <codeph>stats.json</codeph>, and configuration file
            <codeph>config.dat </codeph>from your backup copies for each node.</li>
        <li>Restart the service on each node.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>      
  </body>
</topic>
