<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="cbepctl-diskwritequeue">
	<title><cmdname>set tap_param</cmdname></title>
	<shortdesc>The disk write queues quota impacts the rate of data sent from source nodes to
		destination nodes. </shortdesc>
	<refbody>
		<section><title>Syntax</title>
			<p>The basic syntax is:</p>
			<codeblock>cbepctl [host]:11210 -b [bucket-name] -p [bucket-password] set tap_param [parameter] [value]
				cbepctl [host]:11210 -b [bucket-name] -p [bucket-password] set tap_param tap_throttle_queue_cap [value]
				cbepctl [host]:11210 -b [bucket-name] -p [bucket-password] set tap_param tap_throttle_cap_pcnt [value]				</codeblock>
		</section>
		<section><title>Description</title>
		<p>One of the specific uses of the command <cmdname>set tap_param</cmdname> is to change the
				default maximum items for a disk write queue. This impacts replication of data that
				occurs between source and destination nodes within a cluster. Both data that a node
				receives from client applications and replicated items that it receives are placed
				on a disk write queue. If there are too many items waiting in the disk write queue
				at any given destination, Couchbase Server reduces the rate of data that is sent to
				a destination. This process is also known as <term>backoff</term>.</p>
			
			<p>By default, when a disk write queue contains one million items a Couchbase Server node reduces the
				rate it sends out data to be replicated. This setting can be changed to be the
				greater of 10% of the items at a destination node or a specific number.</p>
		</section>
		<section><title>Options</title>
			<p>The following are the command options:</p>
			<table>
				<title>tet ap_param optioins</title>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
					<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.44*"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Parameter</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>tap_keepalive</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Seconds to hold a named tap connection.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>tap_throttle_queue_cap</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The maximum disk write queue size when tap streams are put into a
								temporary 5-second pause. Infinite means there is no cap.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>tap_throttle_cap_pcnt</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The maximum number of items in the disk write queue as a
								percentage of all items on a node. At this point, tap streams are
								put into a temporary, 5-second pause.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>tap_throttle_threshold</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Percentage of memory in use when tap streams are put into a
								temporary, 5-second pause. </entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
		</section>
			
			
			<section><title>Examples</title>
				
				<p>Change the default bucket setting to specify that a replica node sends a request for backoff
				when it has two million items.</p>
				<codeblock>cbepctl 10.5.2.117:11210 set tap_param tap_throttle_queue_cap 2000000</codeblock>
				
				<p>The following example for the default bucket changes the default percentage used to manage
				the replication stream. If the items in a disk write queue reach the greater of this
				percentage or a specified number of items, replication requests slow down.</p>
				<p>The threshold is set to 15% of all items at a replica node. When a disk
					write queue on a replica node reaches this point, it requests replication backoff.</p>
				<codeblock>cbepctl 10.5.2.117:11210 set tap_param tap_throttle_cap_pcnt 15</codeblock>
			
	<p><b>Response</b></p>
			<p>The following example responses show a two million setting and a 15% threshold:</p>
			<codeblock>setting param: tap_throttle_queue_cap 2000000
set tap_throttle_queue_cap to 2000000

setting param: tap_throttle_cap_pcnt 15
set tap_throttle_cap_pcnt to 15			</codeblock>

		</section>
		
	</refbody>

</reference>
