<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2891">
   <title>Reporting issues</title>
   <shortdesc>A description of the information to include when reporting an issue
        (JIRA).</shortdesc>
   <body>
      <p>When reporting issues to Couchbase, add the following information to JIRA issues:</p>
      <ul>
         <li>Provide a description of your environment (for example, package installation,
            cluster_run, build number, operating system, and so on).</li>
         <li>Show all the steps necessary to reproduce the issue (if applicable).</li>
         <li>Show the full content of all the design documents.</li>
         <li>Describe how your documents are structured (for example, if they are all same structure
            or if they have different structures).</li>
         <li>If you generated the data with a tool, identify the tool name and all the parameters
            given to it (full command line).</li>
         <li><p>Show the queries you were performing (include all query parameters and the full URL). For
               example, if you are using curl, use the verbose option (-v) and show the full
               output.</p></li>
      </ul>
      <p>The following request uses curl with the -v option with test as the bucket, dev_zlat as the
         design document, and Python (installed separately) as the tool used to format the
         output.</p>
      <codeblock>curl -v http://10.5.2.54:8092/test/_design/dev_zlat | python -m json.tool

* About to connect() to 10.5.2.54 port 8092 (#0)
*   Trying 10.5.2.54...   % Total    % Received % Xferd  Average Speed   Time    Time     Time  Current
                                 Dload  Upload   Total   Spent    Left  Speed
  0     0    0     0    0     0      0      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--     0connected
* Connected to 10.5.2.54 (10.5.2.54) port 8092 (#0)
  GET /test/_design/dev_zlat HTTP/1.1
  User-Agent: curl/7.21.4 (x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu) libcurl/7.21.4 OpenSSL/0.9.8b zlib/1.2.3
  Host: 10.5.2.54:8092
  Accept: */*
  
  HTTP/1.1 200 OK
  X-Couchbase-Meta: {"id":"_design/dev_zlat","rev":"1-08738b26","type":"json"}
  Server: MochiWeb/1.0 (Any of you quaids got a smint?)
  Date: Mon, 24 Nov 2014 21:17:13 GMT
  Content-Type: application/json
  Content-Length: 159
  Cache-Control: must-revalidate
  
{ [data not shown]
100   159  100   159    0     0  36780      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:-- 79500* Connection #0 to host 10.5.2.54 left intact

* Closing connection #0
{
    "views": {
        "byloc": {
            "map": "function (doc, meta) {\n  
            if (meta.type == \"json\") {\n    emit(doc.city, doc.sales);\n  } 
            else {\n    emit([\"blob\"]);\n  }\n}"
        }
    }
}

      </codeblock>
      <ul>
         <li>Repeat the query with different values for the stale parameter and show the
               output</li>
         <li>Attach logs from all nodes in the cluster</li>
         <li>Try all view related operations, including creating, updating, and deleting design
                documents from the command line. The goal is to isolate UI problems from the view
                engine. <p>To create, update, or delete a design document using REST on the command
                    line, see  <xref href="../REST/rest-views-intro.dita#reference_rest_views"
                    />.</p></li>
         <li>If you suspect the indexer is stuck or blocked, use curl against the
                  <codeph>_active_tasks</codeph> API to isolate UI issues from view-engine issues. For example:
            <codeblock>curl -s http://10.5.2.54:8092/_active_tasks
[
    {
        "limit": 16, 
        "pid": "&lt;0.1006.0&gt;", 
        "running": 0, 
        "started_on": 1407799619, 
        "type": "couch_main_index_barrier", 
        "updated_on": 1410294790, 
        "waiting": 0
    }, 
    {
        "limit": 2, 
        "pid": "&lt;0.1007.0&gt;", 
        "running": 0, 
        "started_on": 1407799619, 
        "type": "couch_replica_index_barrier", 
        "updated_on": 1407799619, 
        "waiting": 0
    }, 
    {
        "limit": 4, 
        "pid": "&lt;0.1008.0&gt;", 
        "running": 0, 
        "started_on": 1407799619, 
        "type": "couch_spatial_index_barrier", 
        "updated_on": 1407799619, 
        "waiting": 0
    }
]
</codeblock></li>
      </ul>
      <note type="note">The <codeph>started_on</codeph> and <codeph>update_on</codeph> fields are
            UNIX timestamps. There are tools (even online) and programming language APIs (Perl,
            Python, and so on) to convert them into human readable form, including date and time.
            The <codeph>_active_tasks</codeph> API contains information on the specific nodes. Query
                <codeph>_active_tasks</codeph> on every node in the cluster to verify whether
            progress is stuck.</note>
   </body>
   <related-links>
      <linklist>
         <link href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues" scope="external" format="html">
            <linktext>couchbase.com/issues</linktext>
         </link>
      </linklist>
   </related-links>
</topic>
