<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1393">
  <title>Common errors</title>
  <shortdesc>Common errors encountered include issues when starting Couchbase server for the first time.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>This page attempts to describe and help you resolve some common errors that you might
      encounter when using Couchbase. It will be a living document as new problems and resolutions
      are discovered.</p>
    
      <section><title>Problems Starting Couchbase Server for the first time</title>
    
    <p>If you are having problems starting Couchbase Server on Linux for the first time, there are
        two very common causes of this that are actually quite related. When the
          <codeph>/etc/init.d/couchbase-server</codeph> script runs it tries to set the file
        descriptor limit and core file size limit:</p>
    <codeblock>
&gt; ulimit -n 10240 ulimit -c unlimited

</codeblock>
    <p>Depending on the defaults of your system, this may or may not be allowed. If Couchbase Server
      is failing to start, you can look through the logs and pick out one or both of these
      messages:</p>
    <codeblock>
ns_log: logging ns_port_server:0:Port server memcached on node 'ns_1@127.0.0.1' exited with status 71. »
Restarting. Messages: failed to set rlimit for open files. »
Try running as root or requesting smaller maxconns value.
</codeblock>
    <p>Alternatively, you may additionally see or optionally see:</p>
    <codeblock>
ns_port_server:0:info:message - Port server memcached on node 'ns_1@127.0.0.1' exited with status 71. »
Restarting. Messages: failed to ensure corefile creation

</codeblock>
    <p>The resolution to these is to edit the /etc/security/limits.conf file and add these
      entries:</p>
    <codeblock>
couchbase hard nofile 10240
couchbase hard core unlimited
</codeblock>
      </section>
  </body>
</topic>
