<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1536">
 <title>General tips</title>
 <shortdesc>General tips include various initial diagnostics activities.</shortdesc>
 <body>
  <p>The following are some general tips that may be useful before performing any more detailed
   investigations:</p>
  <ul>
   <li><p>Try pinging the node.</p></li>
   <li><p>Try connecting to Couchbase Server Web Console on the node.</p></li>
   <li><p>Try to use <codeph>telnet</codeph> to connect to the various ports that Couchbase Server
          uses.</p></li>
   <li><p>Try reloading the web page.</p></li>
   <li><p>Check firewall settings (if any) on the node. Make sure there isn’t a firewall between you
     and the node. On a Windows system, for example, the Windows firewall might be blocking the
     ports (Control Panel &gt; Windows Firewall).</p></li>
   <li><p>Make sure that the documented ports are open between nodes and make sure the data
     operation ports are available to clients.</p></li>
   <li><p>Check your browser’s security settings.</p></li>
   <li><p>Check any other security software installed on your system, such as antivirus
     programs.</p></li>
   <li><p>Generate a Diagnostic Report for use by Couchbase Technical Support to help determine what
          the problem is. There are two ways of collecting this information:</p><ul>
          <li>
            <p>Click <codeph>Generate Diagnostic Report</codeph> on the Log page to obtain a
              snapshot of your system’s configuration and log information for deeper analysis. You
              must send this file to Couchbase.</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Run the <codeph>cbcollect_info</codeph> on each node within your cluster. To run, you
              must specify the name of the file you are generating:</p>
          </li>
        </ul><p><codeph> &gt; cbcollect_info nodename.zip </codeph></p>The command creates a Zip
        file with the specified name. You must run each command individually on each node within the
        cluster. You can then send each file to Couchbase for analysis.</li>
  </ul>
 </body>
 <related-links>
  <linklist>
   <link href="../CLI/cbcollect_info_tool.dita"></link>
   <link href="../Install/install-networkPorts.dita"></link>
  </linklist>
 </related-links>
</topic>
