<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1211">
	<title>Server issues</title>
	<shortdesc>Troubleshooting Couchbase Server is the basic action associated with critical and
		informational issues.</shortdesc>
	<body>
		<p>The following table outlines some specific areas to check when experiencing different
			problems:</p>
		<table>
			<tgroup cols="3">
				<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
				<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2*"/>
				<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="4*"/>
				<thead>
					<row>
						<entry>Severity</entry>
						<entry>Issue</entry>
						<entry>Suggested Action(s)</entry>
					</row>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry>Critical</entry>
						<entry>Couchbase Server does not start up.</entry>
						<entry>Check that the service is running.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry/>
						<entry/>
						<entry>Check error logs.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry/>
						<entry/>
						<entry>Try restarting the service.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Critical</entry>
						<entry>The server is not responding.</entry>
						<entry>Check that the service is running.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry/>
						<entry/>
						<entry>Check error logs.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry/>
						<entry/>
						<entry>Try restarting the service.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Critical</entry>
						<entry>The server is down.</entry>
						<entry>Try restarting the server.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry/>
						<entry/>
						<entry>Use the command-line interface to check connectivity.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Informational</entry>
						<entry>Bucket authentication failure.</entry>
						<entry>Check the properties of the bucket to which you are attempting to connect.</entry>
					</row>
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table>
		<p>The primary source for run-time logging information is Couchbase Server Web Console.
			Run-time logs are automatically set up and started during the installation process.
			However, Couchbase Server gives you access to lower-level logging details if needed
			for diagnostic and troubleshooting purposes. </p>
		<p>Log files are stored in a binary format in the logs directory under the Couchbase
			installation directory. You must use <codeph>browse_logs</codeph> to extract the log
			contents from the binary format to a text file.</p>
	</body>
</topic>
