<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3173">
     <title>Index filesystem structure</title>
     <shortdesc>A description of the index filesystem structure.</shortdesc>
     <body>
          <p>All index files live within a subdirectory of the data directory named
                    <codeph>@indexes</codeph>. Within this subdirectory, there’s a subdirectory for
               each bucket (which matches exactly the bucket name).</p>
          <p>Any index file has the form
                    <codeph>&lt;type&gt;_&lt;hexadecimal_signature&gt;.view.N</codeph> Each
               component’s meaning is:</p>
          <ul>
               <li><p><codeph>type</codeph> - the index type, can be main (active vBuckets data) or
                    replica (replica vBuckets data)</p></li>
               <li><p><codeph>hexadecimal_signature</codeph> - this is the hexadecimal form of an MD5 hash computed
                         over the map/reduce functions of a design document, when these functions
                         change, a new index is created. It’s possible to have multiple versions of
                         the same design document alive (different signatures). This happens for a
                         short period, for example when a client sends a
                              <codeph>stale=false</codeph> request to an index (1 index == 1 design
                         document). Such request triggers an index build/update, and before this
                         update/build is finished the design document is updated with different
                         map/reduce functions. The initial version of the index remains alive until
                         all currently blocked clients on it are served. In the meanwhile, the new
                         query requests are always redirected to the latest (second) version of the
                         index, making it possible to have multiple versions of the same design
                         document index files at any point in time even for short periods of
                         time.</p></li>
               <li><p><codeph>N</codeph> - when an index file is created N is 1, always. Every time
                         the index file is compacted, N is incremented by 1. This is similar to what
                         happens for vBucket database files Data missing in query response or it’s wrong 
                         (potentially due to server issues)).</p></li>
          </ul>
          <p>For each design document, there is also a subdirectory named like
                    <codeph>tmp_&lt;hexadecimal_signature&gt;_&lt;type&gt;</codeph>. This directory
               contains temporary files used for the initial index build (and soon for incremental
               optimizations). Files within this directory have a name formed by the design document
               signature and a generated UUID. These files are periodically deleted when they are no
               more useful.</p>
          <p>All views defined within a design document are backed by a tree data structure, and
               they all live inside the same index file. Therefore for each design document,
               independently of the number of views it defines, there are two files: one for main
               data and the other for replica data.</p>
          <p>Example:</p>
          <codeblock><codeph>&gt; tree couch/0/\@indexes/
couch/0/@indexes/
 ??? default
     ???
main_018b83ca22e53e14d723ea858ba97168.view.1
     ???
main_15e1f576bc85e3e321e28dc883c90077.view.1
     ???
main_440b0b3ded9d68abb559d58b9fda3e0a.view.1
     ???
main_4995c136d926bdaf94fbe183dbf5d5aa.view.1
     ???
main_fd2bdf6191e61af6e801e3137e2f1102.view.1
     ???
replica_018b83ca22e53e14d723ea858ba97168.view.1
     ???
replica_15e1f576bc85e3e321e28dc883c90077.view.1
     ???
replica_440b0b3ded9d68abb559d58b9fda3e0a.view.1
     ???
replica_4995c136d926bdaf94fbe183dbf5d5aa.view.1
     ???
replica_fd2bdf6191e61af6e801e3137e2f1102.view.1
     ???
tmp_018b83ca22e53e14d723ea858ba97168_main
     ???
tmp_15e1f576bc85e3e321e28dc883c90077_main
     ???
tmp_440b0b3ded9d68abb559d58b9fda3e0a_main
     ???
tmp_4995c136d926bdaf94fbe183dbf5d5aa_main
     ???
tmp_fd2bdf6191e61af6e801e3137e2f1102_main

 6 directories, 10 files
</codeph></codeblock>
     </body>
     
</topic>
