<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_c5q_2g1_vs">
  <title>Common Errors</title><shortdesc>Most commonly encountered errors when using Couchbase Server and possible resolutions.</shortdesc>
  <body>
   
      
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>File descriptor and core file size limits</dt>
          <dd>If you are having problems starting Couchbase Server on Linux for the first time, there are two common and related causes to consider. When the
            <filepath>/etc/init.d/couchbase-server </filepath>script runs, it tries to set the file
            descriptor limit and core file size limit:
            <codeblock>ulimit -n 40960
ulimit -c unlimited </codeblock></dd>
          <dd>This may or may not be allowed depending on your system configuration. 
            If Couchbase Server is failing to start, you can look through the logs for one or both of these messages:
            <codeblock>ns_log: logging ns_port_server:0:Port server memcached on node 'ns_1@127.0.0.1' exited with status 71.  
Restarting. Messages: failed to set rlimit for open files. 
Try running as root or requesting smaller maxconns value.
</codeblock></dd>
          <dd>Alternatively, you may additionally see or optionally see:
            <codeblock>ns_port_server:0:info:message - Port server memcached on node 'ns_1@127.0.0.1' exited with status 71. 
Restarting. Messages: failed to ensure core file creation</codeblock></dd>
          <dd>The resolution to these is to edit the /etc/security/limits.conf file and add these entries:
            <codeblock>couchbase hard nofile 40960
couchbase hard core unlimited</codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>IP address seems to have changed</dt>
          <dd>Error message:
            <codeblock>IP address seems to have changed. Unable to listen on 'ns_1@' </codeblock></dd>
          <dd>This message means that Couchbase Server had a problem opening a port with that address. 
            Couchbase Server listens on all interfaces (0.0.0.0), and chooses which interface to use for 
            its cluster host name (Erlang OTP hostname, not DNS hostname, though the two values can be the same)  
            (ns_1@IP) by determining which interface would lead out to external networks. 
            This is defined by your routing table. This error often occurs due to a networking 
            issue, particularly around DHCP and DNS resolution. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Cluster version compatibility mismatch</dt>
          <dd>Error message:
            <codeblock> This node cannot add another node (ns@xx.xx.xx) because of cluster compatibility mismatch. 
 Cluster works in [version xx] mode and only support [version xx].</codeblock></dd>
          
          <dd>This message means that the cluster is at version XX and only supports adding nodes XX or
            higher. Typically, to enable certain features like client-server SSL, or secure XDCR; all the
            nodes of the cluster to be at a required compatibility level or higher that supports the
            feature. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Difficulties communicating with the cluster. Displaying cached information.</dt>
          <dd>Error message:
            <codeblock>Lost connection to server at &lt;IP&gt;:8091. Repeating in XX seconds. Retry now. Repeating failed XHR request...</codeblock>You
            are seeing the cached UI. This issue is mostly due to the network connection between your
            system and the Couchbase Server node. Verify your connectivity to the Couchbase Server node
            using <cmdname>ping</cmdname> and <cmdname>telnet</cmdname>. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Transparent huge server pages enabled</dt>
          <dd>Starting in Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) version 6, a new default method of 
            managing huge pages was implemented in the OS. It combines smaller memory pages 
            into Huge Pages without the running processes knowing. The idea is to reduce the 
            number of lookups on TLB required and therefore increase performance. 
            It introduces an abstraction for automation and management of huge page. 
            Couchbase Engineering has determined that under some conditions, <b>Couchbase Server 
            can be negatively impacted by severe page allocation delays when THP is enabled</b>. 
            Couchbase therefore recommends that THP be disabled on all Couchbase Server nodes </dd>
          <dd>To disable THPs on a running system temporarily, run the following commands:
          <codeblock> # Disable THP on a running system
      sudo echo never > /sys/kernel/mm/transparent_hugepage/enabled
      sudo echo never > /sys/kernel/mm/transparent_hugepage/defrag</codeblock></dd>
          <dd>To disable this permanently, do the following:
            <codeblock># Backup rc.local
      sudo cp -p /etc/rc.local /etc/rc.local.`date +%Y%m%d-%H:%M`</codeblock>
          </dd>
          <dd>Then copy the following into the bottom of /etc/rc.local.
            <codeblock>if test -f /sys/kernel/mm/transparent_hugepage/enabled; then
      echo never > /sys/kernel/mm/transparent_hugepage/enabled
      fi
      
      if test -f /sys/kernel/mm/transparent_hugepage/defrag; then
      echo never > /sys/kernel/mm/transparent_hugepage/defrag
      fi</codeblock>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Blocked view indexing</dt>
          <dd>You have defined a view with <codeph>a _stats</codeph> reduce function. You see constant empty results in your queries to the view::
          <codeblock>  > curl -s 'http://localhost:8092/default/_design/dev_test3/_view/view1?full_set=true'
      {"rows":[]
      }</codeblock>
        </dd>
          <dd>You might repeat this query for several minutes or even hours and always get an empty
          result set. Try to query the view with <codeph>stale=false</codeph>, and you will get:
          <codeblock>&gt; curl -s 'http://localhost:8092/default/_design/dev_test3/_view/view1?full_set=true&amp;stale=false'
      {"rows":[
      ],
      "errors":[
      {"from":"local","reason":"Builtin _stats function
      requires map values to be numbers"},
      {"from":"http://192.168.1.80:9502/_view_merge/?stale=false","reason":"Builtin _stats function requires map values to be
      numbers"},
      {"from":"http://192.168.1.80:9501/_view_merge/?stale=false","reason":"Builtin _stats function requires map values to be
      numbers"},
      {"from":"http://192.168.1.80:9503/_view_merge/?stale=false","reason":"Builtin _stats function requires map values to be
      numbers"}
      ]
      }</codeblock>
        </dd>
          <dd>Then looking at the design document, you see it could never work, as values are not numbers:
            <codeblock> {
      "views":
      {
      "view1": {
      "map": "function(doc, meta) { emit(meta.id, meta.id); }",
      "reduce": "_stats"
      }
      }
      }</codeblock>
          </dd>
          <dd>One important question to answer is, why do you see the errors when querying with
            <codeph>stale=false</codeph> but do not see them when querying with
            <codeph>stale=update_after </codeph>(default) or <codeph>stale=ok </codeph>? Consider these points: <ul>
            <li><codeph>stale=false</codeph> means: trigger an index update/build, and wait until it
              that update/build finishes, then start streaming the view results. For this example,
              index build/update failed, so the client gets an error, describing why it failed, from
              all nodes where it failed.</li>
            <li><codeph>stale=update_after</codeph> means start streaming the index contents
              immediately and after trigger an index update (if the index is not up to date
              already), so query responses won’t see indexing errors as they do for the
                <codeph>stale=false</codeph> scenario. For this particular example, the error
              happened during the initial index build, so the index was empty when the view queries
              arrived in the system, whence the empty result set. </li>
            <li><codeph>stale=ok</codeph> is very similar to (2), except it doesn’t trigger index
              updates.</li>
          </ul>
        </dd>
          <dd>Finally, index build/update errors, related to user Map/Reduce functions, can be
            found in a dedicated log file that exists per node and has a filename matching mapreduce_errors.#. 
            For example, from node 1, the file *mapreduce_errors.1 contained:
            
            <codeblock>[mapreduce_errors:error,2012-08-20T16:18:36.250,n_0@192.168.1.80:&gt;0.2096.1&lt;] Bucket `default`, 
       main group `_design/dev_test3`,
       error executing reduce
       function for view `view1'
       reason: Builtin _stats function requires map values to be numbers</codeblock>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>View time-out errors</dt>
          <dd>View timeout errors can occur when querying a view with stale=false.
          </dd>
          <dd>When querying a view with stale=false, you often get timeout errors for one or more
          nodes. These nodes are nodes that did not receive the original query request. For example,
          you query node 1, and you get timeout errors for nodes 2, 3 and 4 as in the example below
          (view with reduce function _count):
          <codeblock>&gt; curl -s 'http://localhost:8092/default/_design/dev_test2/_view/view2?full_set=true&amp;stale=false'
      {"rows":[
      {"key":null,"value":125184}
      ],
      "errors":[
      {"from":"http://192.168.1.80:9503/_view_merge/?stale=false","reason":"timeout"},
      {"from":"http://192.168.1.80:9501/_view_merge/?stale=false","reason":"timeout"},
      {"from":"http://192.168.1.80:9502/_view_merge/?stale=false","reason":"timeout"}
      ]
      }</codeblock>
        </dd>
          <dd>By default, for queries with <codeph>stale=false</codeph> (full consistency) the view
          merging node (node that receives the query request, node 1 in this example) waits up to
          60000 milliseconds (1 minute) to receive partial view results from each other node in the
          cluster. If it waits for more than 1 minute for results from a remote node, it stops
          waiting and a timeout error entry is added to the final response. A
            <codeph>stale=false</codeph> request blocks a client, or the view merger node as in this
          example, until the index is up to date, and these timeouts can happen frequently. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Swappiness enabled </dt>
          <dd>Swappiness levels tell the virtual memory subsystem how much it should try and swap to
          disk. The thing is, the system will try to swap out items in memory even when there is
          plenty of RAM available to the system. The OS default is usually 60, and you can see what
          value your system is set to by running the following command:
          <codeblock> cat /proc/sys/vm/swappiness</codeblock>
        </dd>
          <dd>Couchbase Server is tuned to operate in memory as much as possible. You can gain or at
          minimum not lose performance by just changing the swappiness value to 0. In a non-tech
          talk, this tells the virtual memory subsystem of the OS to not swap items from RAM to disk
          unless it really has to. If you have correctly sized your nodes, swapping should not be needed. 
          To set this, perform the following process use sudo or just become root if you
          ride in the wild west. <ol>
            <li>Set the value for the running system:
              <codeblock>sudo echo 0 > /proc/sys/vm/swappiness</codeblock>
            </li>
            <li>Backup sysctl.conf:
              <codeblock>sudo cp -p /etc/sysctl.conf /etc/sysctl.conf.`date +%Y%m%d-%H:%M`</codeblock></li>
            <li>Set the value in /etc/sysctl.conf so it stays after reboot:
                <codeblock>sudo echo '' >> /etc/sysctl.conf
       sudo echo '#Set swappiness to 0 to avoid swapping' >> /etc/sysctl.conf
       sudo echo 'vm.swappiness = 0' >> /etc/sysctl.conf</codeblock><p>Make
                sure that you either have or modify your process that builds your OSs to do this.
                This is especially critical for public/private clouds where it is so easy to bring
                up new instances. You need to make this part of your build process for a Couchbase
                node. </p>
            </li>
          </ol>
        </dd>
          
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      
      
  </body>
</topic>
