<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic8607">
	<title>REST API overview</title>
	<shortdesc> The Couchbase REST API enables you to manage the Couchbase Server deployment, clusters,
		server nodes and buckets,  as well as perform operations such as storing design documents
		and querying for results.</shortdesc>
	<body>
		<section>
			<title>Description</title>
			<p>The Couchbase REST API conforms to Representational State Transfer (REST) constraints and
				follows the <b>RESTful</b> architecture. When developing a Couchbase-compatible SDK,
				the REST API is used within your library to handle views. Views enable you to index
				and query data based on functions that you define. </p>
			
			<note type="tip">The REST API should <b>not</b> be used to read or write data to the server.
				Couchbase SDKs handle the data operations, such as <codeph>set</codeph> and
					<codeph>get</codeph>. </note>
			
			<p>The Couchbase Web Console uses many of the same REST API endpoints used for REST API requests,
				such as creating a new bucket, adding a node to a cluster, or changing cluster
				settings. </p>
			<p>Here are the important points to remember:</p>
			
			<ul>
				<li><b>Provide RESTful requests</b>. You will not receive any handling instructions, resource
					descriptions, nor should you presume any conventions for URI structure for the
					represented resources. The URIs in the REST API may have a specific URI or may even
					appear as RPC or some other architectural style using HTTP operations and
					semantics.</li>
				<li><b>Build your request starting from Couchbase cluster URIs</b>. Be aware
					that URIs for resources may change from version to version. The URI hierarchies
					facilitate reuse of requests because they follow a similar pattern for accessing
					different parts of the system.</li>
			</ul>
		
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Basic principles</title>
		<p>The Couchbase Server REST API is built on the following basic principles:</p>
		<dl>
			<dlentry>
				<dt>JSON responses</dt>
				<dd>The Couchbase Management REST API returns many responses as JavaScript Object Notation
					(JSON). On that note, you may find it convenient to read responses in a JSON reader.
					Some responses may have an empty body, but indicate the response with standard HTTP
					codes. For more information, see RFC 4627 at www.json.org.</dd>
			</dlentry>
		</dl>	
		<dl>
			<dlentry>
				<dt>HTTP basic access authentication</dt>
				<dd>The Couchbase Management REST API uses HTTP basic authentication. 
					The browser-based Web Console and Command-line Interface also use HTTP basic authentication.</dd>
			</dlentry>
		</dl>	
		<dl>
			<dlentry>
				<dt>Versatile server nodes</dt>
				<dd>All server nodes in a cluster share the same properties and can handle any
					requests made via the REST API.; you can make a REST API request on any node
					in a cluster you want to access. Sometimes a server node cannot service a
					request directly due to lack of access to state or some other information.
					In such case, it will forward the request to the appropriate server node,
					retrieve the results, and send the results back to the client.</dd>
			</dlentry>
		</dl>	
		
		</section>
		
	
		
		<section><title>Types of resources</title>There are different resources within the Couchbase
			Server that require different URI/RESTful-endpoints to perform operations:<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Server nodes</dt>
					<dd>A Couchbase Server instance, also known as a <term>server</term> or
							<term>server node</term>, is a physical or virtual machine running
						Couchbase Server. Each server node is a member of a cluster.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl><dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Cluster/Pool</dt>
					<dd>A <term>cluster</term> is a group of one or more servers and is a collection
						of physical resources that are grouped together and provide services and a
						management interface. A single default cluster exists for every deployment
						of Couchbase Server. A <term>server node</term>, or an instance of Couchbase
						Server, is a member of a cluster. Couchbase Server collects run-time
						statistics for clusters, maintaining an overall pool-level data view of
						counters and periodic metrics of the overall system. The Couchbase
						Management REST API can be used to retrieve historic statistics for a
						cluster.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl><dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Buckets</dt>
					<dd>A <term>bucket</term> is a logical grouping of data within a cluster. It
						provides a name space for all the related data in an application. Therefore,
						you can use the same key in two different buckets, which Couchbase Server
						treats as and unique items. Couchbase Server collects run-time statistics
						for buckets, maintaining an overall bucket-level data view of counters and
						periodic metrics of the overall system. Buckets are categorized by storage
						type. Memcached buckets are for in-memory, RAM-based information. Couchbase
						buckets are for persisted data.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl><dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Views</dt>
					<dd>Specify the logic for using the views to index and query data. Use also
						views to perform calculations and aggregations, such as statistics, for
						items in Couchbase Server.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl><dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Cross datacenter replication (XDCR)</dt>
					<dd>Cross Datacenter Replication (XDCR) enables automatic replicate of data
						between clusters and between data buckets. The major benefits include the
						ability to restore data from one Couchbase cluster to another cluster after
						a system failure and the ability to provide copies of data on clusters that
						are physically closer to end users.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl></section>
	
		<p>Use the REST API to manage clusters, server nodes, and buckets, and to retrieve run-time statistics within a Couchbase Server deployment. </p>
		
		
		
		
		<section><title>HTTP request headers</title>
			<p>The following HTTP request headers are used to create requests:</p>
			
			<table>
				<tgroup cols="4">
					<colspec colname="col1"/>
					<colspec colname="col2"/>
					<colspec colname="col3"/>
					<colspec colname="col4"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Header</entry>
							<entry>Supported Values</entry>
							<entry>Description of Use</entry>
							<entry>Required</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>Accept</entry>
							<entry>Comma-delimited list of media types or media type
								patterns.</entry>
							<entry>Indicates to the server what media type(s) this client is
								prepared to accept.</entry>
							<entry>Recommended</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>Authorization</entry>
							<entry><codeph>Basic</codeph> plus username and password (per RFC
								2617).</entry>
							<entry>Identifies the authorized user making this request.</entry>
							<entry>No, unless secured</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>Content-Length</entry>
							<entry>Body Length (in bytes)</entry>
							<entry>Describes the size of the message body.</entry>
							<entry>Yes, on requests that contain a message body.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>Content-Type</entry>
							<entry>Content type</entry>
							<entry>Describes the representation and syntax of the request message
								body.</entry>
							<entry>Yes, on requests that contain a message body.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>Host</entry>
							<entry>Origin host name</entry>
							<entry>Required for allowing the support of multiple origin hosts at a single IP
								address.</entry>
							<entry>All requests</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>X-YYYYY-Client-Specification-Version</entry>
							<entry>String</entry>
							<entry>Declares the specification version of the YYYYY API against which this client was
								programmed.</entry>
							<entry>No </entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
		
		</section>
		
		
		<section><title>HTTP response codes</title>
			<p>The Couchbase Server  returns one of the following HTTP status codes in response to REST API
				requests:</p>
			
			<table>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
					<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="3*"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>HTTP response</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>200 OK</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Successful request and an HTTP response body returns. If this
								creates a new resource with a URI, the 200 status will also have a
								location header containing the canonical URI for the newly created
								resource.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>201 Created</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Request to create a new resource is successful, but no HTTP
								response body returns. The URI for the newly created resource
								returns with the status code.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>202 Accepted</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The request is accepted for processing, but processing is not complete. Per HTTP/1.1,
								the response, if any, must include an indication of the request’s
								current status and either a pointer to a status monitor or some
								estimate when the request will be fulfilled.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>204 No Content</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The server fulfilled the request but does not need to return a response body.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>400 Bad Request</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The request could not be processed because it contains missing or
								invalid information, such as validation error on an input field, a
								missing required value, and so on.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>401 Unauthorized</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The credentials provided with this request are missing or
								invalid.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>403 Forbidden</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The server recognized the given credentials, but you do not
								possess proper access to perform this request.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>404 Not Found</codeph></entry>
							<entry>URI provided in a request does not exist.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>405 Method Not Allowed</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The HTTP verb specified in the request (DELETE, GET, HEAD, POST,
								PUT) is not supported for this URI.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>406 Not Acceptable</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The resource identified by this request cannot create a response
								corresponding to one of the media types in the Accept header of the
								request.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>409 Conflict</codeph></entry>
							<entry>A create or update request could not be completed, because it
								would cause a conflict in the current state of the resources
								supported by the server. For example, an attempt to create a new
								resource with a unique identifier already assigned to some existing
								resource.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>500 Internal Server Error</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The server encountered an unexpected condition that prevented it from fulfilling the
								request.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>501 Not Implemented</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The server does not currently support the functionality required
								to fulfill the request.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>503 Service Unavailable</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The server is currently unable to handle the request due to
								temporary overloading or maintenance of the server. </entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
		</section>
	</body>
	
	
</topic>
