<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="rest-cluster-autofailover">
  <title>Managing Auto-Failover</title>
  <shortdesc>Auto-failover is managed with with the <codeph>GET /settings/autoFailover</codeph> HTTP method and URI.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    
    <section><title>Description</title>
    <p>This section provides information about retrieving, enabling, disabling and resetting
      auto-failover.</p>
      
      <table>
        <title>Auto-failover endpoints</title>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2*"/>
          <colspec colname="col3" colwidth="3*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>HTTP method</entry>
              <entry>URI path</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>GET</entry>
              <entry><filepath>/settings/autoFailover</filepath></entry>
              <entry>Retrieves automatic failover settings. Parameters include:
                <ul>
                  <li>Enabled=<codeph>[true|false] </codeph>: True to enable failover; false to
                    disable failover.</li>
                  <li>timeout=<codeph>[value]</codeph> : Integer between 30 and 3600. Specifies the
                    amount of time (in seconds) that a node is down before failover in
                    initiated.</li>
                  <li>count=<codeph>[0|1]</codeph>:  Value is 0 or 1. It shows whether any node in a cluster can be automatically failed-over. 
                    After one auto-failover occurs, the count is set to 1 and 
                    Couchbase Server does not perform another auto-failover for the cluster unless the count is reset to 0. 
                    To failover more than one node at a time in a cluster, perform a manual failover.</li>
                </ul></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>POST</entry>
              <entry><filepath>/settings/autoFailover</filepath></entry>
              <entry>Enables and disables automatic failover. To enable or disable failover, use the
                  <codeph>enabled=[true|false]</codeph> parameter. To specify the number of seconds
                that a node must be down before initiating failover, use the
                  <codeph>timeout</codeph> parameter.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>POST</entry>
              <entry><filepath>/settings/autoFailover/resetCount</filepath></entry>
              <entry>Resets automatic failover count to 0.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
