<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_xyb_fds_zr">
  <title>Common usage</title>
  <body>
    <p>While the library offers several command-line tools, they conform to similar rules.
      Specifically, all client-based command-line tools follow a specific format when
      connecting to the cluster.</p>
    <section><title>Connecting</title>To connect to a cluster, pass the cluster's <i><xref
      href="options.dita#topic_k5w_kzt_4r">connection string</xref></i> to the
      <codeph>-U</codeph> option. If your bucket requires a password, you can specify
      the password using the <codeph>-P</codeph> option. The value to the
      <codeph>-P</codeph> option can either be a literal password string (insecure,
      but more convenient when testing), or a dash (<codeph>-</codeph>), which will cause
      the command line tool to prompt for the password once during execution. The latter
      method is more secure and should be used when connecting to production
      password-protected buckets.</section>
    <section><title>Logging</title>Logging can be enabled by passing the <codeph>-v</codeph>
      option. In accordance with many traditional command line tools, the verbosity of the
      logging may be increased by passing the <codeph>-v</codeph> option more than
      once.</section>
    <section><title>Connection String Options</title>While connection string options can be
      passed directly inside the connection string, they can also be specified on the command
      line directly by using the <codeph>-D</codeph> option. The <codeph>-D</codeph> option
      can be supplied multiple times and functions similarly to the option of the same name as
      used in the C
      preprocessor.<codeblock>cbc cat foo -U couchbase://localhost/default?certpath=/foo/bar/baz?operation_timeout=5.0
        # Simpler
        cbc cat foo -U couchbase://localhost/default -Dcertpath=/foo/bar/baz -Doperation_timeout=5.0</codeblock></section>
  </body>
</topic>
