<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_inc_2js_zr">
  <title>Durability requirements for mutations</title>
  <body>
      <section>
          <title>Overview</title>
          <p>To greatly improve performance, normal SDK mutation operations such as store receive a
				positive reply (meaning that the operation was successful) as soon as the node has
				managed to store the value in its RAM. The item is then asynchronously written to the
				disk and sent to any applicable replica servers (in no specific order). </p>
          <p>While the process of replication and persistence is extremely fast, there is
				nevertheless a small risk of data loss if the server which received the mutation replies
				with success, but then immediately afterward goes offline. For some critical mutations,
				the application may desire to choose to wait until the item has attained a given
				redundancy before continuing. </p>
          <p>
                <i>Durability Requirements</i> provide a means for the user to declare to the
                library to not continue until a given mutation has been replicated or persisted to a
                given amount of nodes. </p>
      </section>
      <section><title>Durability Requirements</title><p> A durability requirement is a declaration
				made by the application to the library to wait until the item has been made redundant to
				some degree. The degree of redundancy is configurable. For example: <ul>
					<li>Wait until the item is stored on the disk of the master node</li>
					<li>Wait until the item is propagated to the disk and memory of at least one replica
						node</li>
					<li>Wait until the item is propagated to the memory of all nodes</li>
				</ul> This allows applications to balance their fault-tolerance and performance demands
				in a manner they see fit </p><p> In the C library, durability operations may be
				performed by using the <apiname>lcb_durability_poll()</apiname>. To use durability
				requirements, the CAS of a successful mutation operation (retrieved from its callback)
				should be placed into an <apiname>lcb_durability_cmd_t</apiname>; additionally, a
				general setting structure (<apiname>lcb_durability_settings_t</apiname>) should be
				populated with the persistence and replication requirements.
				<codeblock outputclass="language-c">lcb_durability_cmd_t cmd, *cmdp = { &amp;cmd };
lcb_durability_opts_t opts;
lcb_error_t err;

memset(&amp;opts, 0, sizeof(opts);
memset(&amp;cmd, 0, sizeof(cmd);

opts.persist_to = 2;
opts.replicate_to = 1;
cmd.v.v0.key = resp->v.v0.key;
cmd.v.v0.nkey = resp->v.v0.nkey;
cmd.v.v0.cas = resp->v.v0.cas;
//schedule the command --
err = lcb_durability_poll(instance, cookie, &amp;opts, &amp;cmdp, 1);
// error checking omitted --
// later on, in the callback. resp is now a durability_resp_t* --
if (resp->v.v0.err == LCB_SUCCESS) {
     printf("Key was endured!\n");
} else {
     printf("Key did not endure in time\n");
     printf("Replicated to: %u replica nodes\n", resp->v.v0.nreplicated);
     printf("Persisted to: %u total nodes\n", resp->v.v0.npersisted);
     printf("Did we persist to master? %u\n", resp->v.v0.persisted_master);
     printf("Does the key exist in the master's cache? %u\n", resp->v.v0.exists_master);
     switch (resp->v.v0.err) {
     case LCB_KEY_EEXISTS:
         printf("Seems like someone modified the key already...\n");
         break;
     case LCB_ETIMEDOUT:
         printf("Either key does not exist, or the servers are too slow\n");
         printf("If persisted_master or exists_master is true, then the"
             "server is simply slow.",
             "otherwise, the key does not exist\n");
         break;
     default:
         printf("Got other error. This is probably a network error\n");
         break;
     }
 }              </codeblock>
			</p>Durability requirements are implemented by the client periodically polling the active
			and replica nodes to retrieve the current status of an item until the status indicates that
			the given constraints have been satisfied. This means that even if durability fails, it is
			not a tell-tale indicator that the operation will never persist or replicate to the given
			nodes, it is merely an indicator that it failed to be replicated or persisted within the
			given time frame. </section>
      <section id="lcb_enhanced_dur">
            <title>Enhanced Durability (Couchbase 4.0)</title>
            <p>In traditional CAS-based durability, constraints checking is done using the CAS. The
				CAS is a value that is randomly changes each time the item has been mutated and is
				intended to be used in compare-and-swap operations (this means that if the local version
				of the CAS differs from the one on the server, the item has changed). </p>
            <p>CAS-based durability might sometimes report indeterminate results, specifically in
				the case of server failover or for highly contended items. Specifically, if the
				durability polling operation detects a CAS mismatch, it does not know if this mismatch
				is due the item not having been replicated, or if this is due to a highly contended item
				being changed since the last mutation. </p>
            <p>Couchbase 4.0 and later allows the usage of monotonically incrementing sequence
				numbers (and an additional identifier) that can be used instead of CAS to check the
				persistence and replication status of a given mutation. Using the sequence number it is
				possible to distinguish failovers from highly contended items. This additional mutation
				metadata is abstracted in the library in the form of a new structure called
					<codeph>lcb_SYNCTOKEN</codeph>.</p>
            <p> To enable sequence-number based durability, two settings should be enabled. <ul>
                    <li><option>LCB_CNTL_FETCH_SYNCTOKENS</option>, or
							<option>fetch_synctokens</option>. <p>This setting enables the server to return
							sequence information (which is different than CAS) for each operation. Note
							that this increases the size of each response by 16 bytes. </p>
					</li>
                    <li><option>LCB_CNTL_DURABILITY_SYNCTOKENS</option> or
							<option>dur_synctokens</option>. <p>This allows
								<apiname>lcb_durability_poll()</apiname> to transparently use this sequence
							number information (cached internally within the client) rather than CAS values
							for durability requirement checking. In this mode, CAS values passed are
							actually ignored. Note that it is still possible to manually pass the sequence
							information to the <apiname>lcb_durability_poll()</apiname> (the necessary
							fields are mentioned in the API documentation). This mode also allows existing
							applications to transparently use enhanced durability.<note>If
									<codeph>FETCH_SYNCTOKENS</codeph> is enabled <i>and</i> you are
								performing durability checks across multiple client instances (that is,
								calling <apiname>lcb_durability_poll()</apiname> on a mutation performed by
								another client instance), then this setting should either be disabled or the
									<apiname>lcb_SYNCTOKEN</apiname> object should be explicitly passed to
								the command structure
							(<apiname>lcb_durability_cmd_t</apiname>)</note></p><p> This mode is enabled by
							default if <option>fetch_synctokens</option> is enabled.</p></li>
                </ul></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Differences between <apiname>SYNCTOKEN</apiname> and CAS</title>
            <note>This section explains the differences between <codeph>SYNCTOKEN</codeph> and CAS
                values. This is written from a higher level architectural perspective. From a
                programming perspective, both of these values are opaque.</note>
            <p><codeph>SYNCTOKEN</codeph> values are per-bucket and reflect a given bucket's state
                moving forward. A given <codeph>SYNCTOKEN</codeph> can be logically <i>greater
                    then</i> or <i>less than</i> another <codeph>SYNCTOKEN</codeph>. These values
                are used internally by Couchbase's replication functionality to create checkpoints
                and determine to which point a bucket has been replicated to a given node.
                Durability checking works by querying replica nodes about the current
                    <codeph>SYNCTOKEN</codeph> they contain, and comparing that to the
                    <codeph>SYNCTOKEN</codeph> value returned from the point at which the given
                mutation (the one the application wishes to <i>endure</i>), and ensuring the
                    <codeph>SYNCTOKEN</codeph> value from the replica is at least equal to the state
                of the given mutation. Note that the relationship between various
                    <codeph>SYNCTOKEN</codeph> values is abstracted in the library, and for
                programming purposes, are to be treated as opaque (<codeph>lcb_SYNCTOKEN</codeph>
                objects themselves are not simple integer values).</p>
            <p>CAS values on the other hand are bound to specific items and do not have a <i>less
                    than</i> or <i>greater than</i> relationship to other CAS values. CAS values may
                only be checked for <i>equality</i>: if an item's CAS value is equal to the CAS
                value known to the application, then the application may assume the item has not
                been modified since the last CAS value was retrieved; if the CAS value differs, then
                the item no longer contains the same value.</p>
            <p><codeph>SYNCTOKEN</codeph> values are not suited for CAS-like comparisons (checking
                whether the value is the same or has changed) since the <codeph>SYNCTOKEN</codeph>
                is modified on each mutation within the bucket. As such, if a
                    <codeph>SYNCTOKEN</codeph> value is higher on the server than it was when the
                client performed its last mutation on a given item, it is unknown whether this is
                because the item has changed, or because another item has changed. Differing CAS
                values for the same item however guarantee that the item has since been
                modified.</p>
            <p>While theoretically speaking, an equal <codeph>SYNCTOKEN</codeph> value is also a
                positive indicator that an item has <i>not</i> changed, it is not suitable for
                general purpose use, since the value will change when <i>any</i> item is mutated
                (not just the one the application is dealing with). CAS values on the other hand are
                per-item.</p>
            <p>The following sequence will show a simplified version of how CAS and
                    <codeph>SYNCTOKEN</codeph> values may change:<table frame="all" rowsep="1"
                    colsep="1" id="table_mfy_ppm_1s">
                    <title>Mutation Flow</title>
                    <tgroup cols="3">
                        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
                        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
                        <colspec colname="newCol3" colnum="3" colwidth="1*"/>
                        <thead>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Action</entry>
                                <entry>CAS Value</entry>
                                <entry><codeph>SYNCTOKEN</codeph> Value</entry>
                            </row>
                        </thead>
                        <tbody>
                            <row>
                                <entry><codeph>STORE("foo", "first foo value")</codeph></entry>
                                <entry>589</entry>
                                <entry>1</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry><codeph>STORE("bar", "first bar value")</codeph></entry>
                                <entry>foo=589, bar=943 </entry>
                                <entry>2</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry><codeph>STORE("foo", "second foo value")</codeph></entry>
                                <entry>foo=436, bar=943</entry>
                                <entry>3</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry><codeph>STORE("bar", "second bar value")</codeph></entry>
                                <entry>foo=436, bar=216</entry>
                                <entry>4</entry>
                            </row>
                        </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
                </table></p>
        </section>
  </body>
</topic>
