<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept1244">
	<title>Quick start</title><shortdesc>Follow these instructions to download and install the tutorial application.</shortdesc>
	<conbody>
		<p>This quick start will help you to set up the code and just follow along as you read through the
			rest of the tutorial.</p>
		<ol>
			<li><p>Download <xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/download" scope="external"
						format="html">Couchbase Server</xref> and install it. Make sure to install the
					beer-sample bucket when you run the wizard because this tutorial application works
					with it.</p></li>

			<li><p>Clone the repository and install dependencies (<xref href="http://expressjs.com"
						format="html" scope="external">Express</xref> and <xref
						href="http://jade-lang.com" format="html" scope="external">Jade</xref>):</p>
				<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ git clone git://github.com/couchbaselabs/beersample-node 
Cloning into 'beersample-node' #... 
$ cd beersample-node 
$ npm install</codeblock>
			</li>

			<li>Set up the views. <p>You can set up the views manually by using the Couchbase Server
					administration console or by invoking the <filepath>beer.js</filepath> script
					located in the <filepath>beersample-node</filepath> directory. </p><p>To set up
					the views with the script, enter the following command: </p><codeblock>$ node beer.js --setup</codeblock>
				<p>To set up the views manually, open the Couchbase Server administration console.
					In the <codeph>beer</codeph> design document, create a development view called
						<codeph>by_name</codeph>, then promote it to a production view. (The
					beer-sample bucket might already have a production design document named beer
					with a by_name view. If it does, you can skip this step.) Here's the JavaScript
					map function for the view:</p>
				<codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">function (doc, meta) {
    if (doc.type &amp;&amp; doc.type == "beer") {
        emit(doc.name, null);
    }
}</codeblock>
				<p>Create another design document called <codeph>brewery</codeph>, add a view called
						<codeph>by_name</codeph>, and publish it to a production view. Here's the
					JavaScript map function for the view:</p>
				<codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">function (doc, meta) {
    if (doc.type &amp;&amp; doc.type == "brewery") {
        emit(doc.name, null);
    }
}</codeblock>
			</li>

			<li><p>Invoke the <filepath>beer.js</filepath> script:</p>
				<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ node beer.js
Server running at http://127.0.0.1:1337/</codeblock>
			</li>
			<li><p>In your web browser, navigate to <xref format="html" scope="external" href="http://localhost:1337/welcome">http://localhost:1337/welcome</xref>,
					and enjoy the application!</p></li>
		</ol>
	</conbody>

</concept>
