<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_qfq_5jg_1t">
    <title>Batching operations</title>
    <shortdesc>Execute multiple operations in batches to gain higher performance and better network
        utilization</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>Batching operations allows you to make better utilization of your network and speed up your
            application by increasing network throughput and reducing latency.</p>
        <p>You can batch operations via the Couchbase SDK. Batching operations is done either via
            explicit <i>multi</i> methods, or by scheduling multiple operations in sequence.</p>
        <p>Batched operations work by <i>pipelining</i> requests over the network. When requests are
            pipelined, they are send in one large group to the cluster. The cluster in turn
            <i>pipelines</i> responses back to the client. When operations are batched, there
            are fewer IP packets to be sent over the network (since there are fewer individual TCP
            segments).</p>
        <p>All key-value operations may be batched.</p>
        <section>
            <title>Asynchronous batching</title>
            <p>Asynchronous clients inherently batch operations: because the application receives
                the response at a later stage in the application, it may attain batching via issuing
                many requests in sequence.</p>
            <p>See <xref href="async-clients.dita#concept_lln_jlg_1t">Asynchronous Clients</xref>
                for an overview on asynchronous programming.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Performance benefits</title>
            <p>IP packets and TCP segments carry their own overhead, so no matter how small the
                contents, there is still a 20 byte overhead for IP, a 10 byte overhead for TCP, and
                a 26 byte overhead for Ethernet for each TCP packet; making the total overhead for
                each request close to 60 bytes. When multiple requests are batched into a single IP
                header or TCP segment, the IP/TCP overhead is incurred only when a new TCP segment
                (or IP packet) is actually needed to accommodate more requests.</p>
            <p>Reducing the number of packets is also more efficient for the CPU, as it requires
                fewer system calls to send/receive data over the network: Since the data is in a
                single buffer, it can be sent at once using a single system call and its responses
                received with a single system call. When using non-batched operations, each request
                and response will need to make its own system call.</p>
            <p>Due to Couchbase’ distributed architecture, multi-item access may result in multiple
                servers being contacted. For instance, when accessing 15 items on a 4 node cluster,
                roughly 3 items will exist on each node. When operations are batched, the SDK can
                efficiently parallelize requests to each involved server, allowing all items to be
                access quicker. On a per-server basis, batching requests allows each individual node
                to fetch relevant items in parallel from its memory.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Error handling</title>
            <p>Operation batching is done purely on the <i>client</i> and <i>network</i>. Couchbase
                does not have a concept of <i>transactional</i> batched operations - in which all
                operations either succeed or fail. As such, some operations may succeed and some may
                fail when batching commands.</p>
            <p>Consult your SDK documentation on how to distinguish successes and failures in
                batched operation.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Batching guidelines</title>
            <p>Batching improves network utilization. However there is a batching threshold at which
                the maximum network efficiency is gained - and batching beyond this amount will
                simply increase memory and CPU usage on the client, and in some cases cause
                operations to prematurely time-out or otherwise fail.</p>
            <p>As a guideline, applications should batch no more than 1MB before sending to the
                server. Calculating the 1 MB value is dependent on the length of the key and value
                (where applicable) of each operation.</p>
            <p>Note that this is just a guideline. The limit may be higher for extremely efficient
                networks (such as 10-gigabit ethernet). It is recommended you benchmark your network
                to get ideal performance numbers. The limit may be lower for congested networks or
                slow server nodes (for example, a shared development VM with low resources).</p>
            <p>The [cbc-pillowfight] utility may be used to appropriately determine the correct
                batch size for a cluster.</p>
            <p>When calculating the batch size, also consider that each operation has a 24 byte
                overhead at the protocol level:</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Sizing batches: examples</title>
            <p>When storing items, with each key being approximately 10 bytes long and each value
                being approximately 4000 bytes long, estimate the following:<ol id="ol_evf_mkg_1t">
                    <li>Calculate Bytes per operation:<ul id="ul_pd1_nkg_1t">
                        <li>10 (Key)</li>
                        <li>4000 (Value)</li>
                        <li>24 (Memcached Packet)</li>
                        <li>Total: 4034. </li>
                    </ul></li>
                    <li>Divide 1 megabyte by the total size of an operation:<ul id="ul_bpm_pkg_1t">
                        <li>1048576 / 4034</li>
                        <li>Batch Size: 259</li>
                    </ul></li>
                </ol>The 24 byte overhead becomes more evident when dealing with smaller values.
                Assuming an average key size of 5 and an average value size of 50:</p>
            <p>
                <ol>
                    <li>Calculate bytes per operaton: <ul>
                        <li>5 (Key)</li>
                        <li>50 (value)</li>
                        <li>24 (Packet)</li>
                        <li>Total: 74</li>
                    </ul></li>
                    <li>Divide 1 megabyte by the total size of an operation:
                        <ul><li>Batch Size: 14169</li></ul></li>
                </ol>
            </p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Batching operations using SDK</title>
            <p>The following example is written in Python, and demonstrates properly splitting
                operations for batch sizes. It uses a 256K batch size and handles errors:</p>
            <codeblock>#!/usr/bin/env python
from couchbase.bucket import Bucket
from couchbase.exceptions import CouchbaseTransientError

cb = Bucket('couchbase://10.0.0.31/default')

BYTES_PER_BATCH = 1024 * 256 # 256K

# Generate our data:
all_data = {}
for x in xrange(100000):
    key = "Key_" + str(x)
    value = { 'value': x }
    all_data[key] = value


batches = []
cur_batch = {}
cur_size = 0
batches.append(cur_batch)

for key, value in all_data.items():
    cur_batch[key] = value
    cur_size += len(key) + len(value) + 24
    if cur_size > BYTES_PER_BATCH:
        cur_batch = {}
        batches.append(cur_batch)
        cur_size = 0

print "Have {} batches".format(len(batches))
num_completed = 0
while batches:
    batch = batches[-1]
    try:
        cb.upsert_multi(batch)
        num_completed += len(batch)
        batches.pop()
    except CouchbaseTransientError as e:
        print e
        ok, fail = e.split_results()
        new_batch = {}
        for key in fail:
            new_batch[key] = all_data[key]
        batches.pop()
        batches.append(new_batch)
        num_completed += len(ok)
        print "Retrying {}/{} items".format(len(new_batch), len(ok))

    print "Completed {}/{} items".format(num_completed, len(all_data))</codeblock>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
