<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_sdc_bn2_2w">
    <title>SDK Installation</title>
    <shortdesc>You can install the C SDK from a repository for your platform, download prebuilt
        binaries or compile from source.</shortdesc>
    
    
    <body>
        <section>
            <title>Quick Installation</title>
            <p>Quick installation on Linux can be used using the <codeph>couchbase-release</codeph>
                repository which is a meta repository. It will inform your Linux distribution about
                Couchbase's package repositories appropriate to your platform. See <xref
                    href="using-sdk.dita#toplevel/install-linux"/> for more information.</p>
            <p>Quick installation on Mac OS X can be done using the <xref href="http://brew.sh"
                    format="html" scope="external">homebrew</xref> package manager.</p>
        </section>
        
        
        
        <section>
            <title>Installing Manually - Linux</title>
            <p>If you want to install the C SDK manually, either from a static binary package or by
                manually configuring the repositories, you can use the following procedures.</p>
            <p>The various Linux distributions contain the following packages:<ul id="ul_shp_qnc_bq">
                    <li><codeph>libcouchbase2-core</codeph>: The core library package</li>
                    <li><codeph>libcouchbase-dev</codeph> (or <codeph>libcouchbase-devel</codeph>):
                        The development package, required if building SDKs which depend on the C
                        SDK</li>
                    <li><codeph>libcouchbase2-bin</codeph>: The command line utilities
                            (<cmdname>cbc</cmdname> and <cmdname>cbc-pillowfight</cmdname>)</li>
                    <li><codeph>libcouchbase2-libevent</codeph>: Optional but recommended component
                        for I/O performance. Can also be used to integrate with
                            <apiname>libevent</apiname> (see <xref
                            href="async-programming.dita#concept_nf3_kz4_p4"/>).</li>
                    <li><codeph>libcouchbase2-libev</codeph>: Optional, for use with applications
                        that make use of event loop integration with <apiname>libev</apiname> (see
                            <xref href="async-programming.dita#concept_nf3_kz4_p4"/>). </li>
                </ul></p>
        </section>
        <section><title>Configuring yum repositories (CentOS, Redhat)</title>This section assumes
            you know how to add an external <xref href="http://yum.baseurl.org" format="html"
                scope="external">yum</xref> repository and Linux quick start explains the steps it
            will perform on your distribution. To configure the repository:<ol id="ol_b12_1lb_bq">
                <li>Find the appropriate repository location for your distribution in the following
                    table. CentOS and RHEL allow 32-bit packages to be installed on a 64-bit system.
                    This is usually not what you want, so ensure that you use the 64-bit repository
                    for your 64-bit system (unless you specifically want the 32-bit SDK). <table
                        id="table_tdg_4n2_2w">
                        <tgroup cols="3">
                            <thead>
                                <row>
                                    <entry>Version</entry>
                                    <entry>Architecture</entry>
                                    <entry>Repository</entry>
                                </row>
                            </thead>
                            <tbody>
                                <row>
                                    <entry>6</entry>
                                    <entry>32-bit</entry>
                                    <entry><codeph>http://packages.couchbase.com/rpm/6.2/i686</codeph></entry>
                                </row>
                                <row>
                                    <entry>6</entry>
                                    <entry>64-bit</entry>
                                    <entry><codeph>http://packages.couchbase.com/rpm/6.2/x86_64</codeph></entry>
                                </row>
                                <row>
                                    <entry>7</entry>
                                    <entry>64-bit</entry>
                                    <entry><codeph>http://packages.couchbase.com/rpm/7/x86_64</codeph></entry>
                                </row>
                            </tbody>
                        </tgroup>
                    </table></li>
                <li>Create a <filepath>couchbase.repo</filepath> file in your
                        <filepath>/etc/yum.repos.d</filepath> directory. It should look similar to
                    the
                    following:<codeblock>[couchbase]
enabled = 1
name = Couchbase package repository
baseurl = REPLACE THIS WITH THE ACTUAL REPOSITORY FOR YOUR PLATFORM
gpgcheck = 1
gpgkey = http://packages.couchbase.com/rpm/couchbase-rpm.key </codeblock></li>
            </ol></section>
        <section><title>Configuring APT repositories (Debian, Ubuntu)</title>This section assumes
            some knowledge of <xref href="https://wiki.debian.org/Apt" format="html"
                scope="external">apt</xref> and Linux quick start explains the steps it will perform
            on your distribution. To configure the repository: <ol id="ol_alc_nmb_bq">
                <li>Download the Couchbase GPG key from
                        <filepath>http://packages.couchbase.com/ubuntu/couchbase.key</filepath>.</li>
                <li>Add the key to the list of trusted package keys. Use the <codeph>apt-key
                        add</codeph> command. For example, <codeph>apt-key add
                        couchbase.key</codeph>.</li>
                <li>Create a <filepath>couchbase.list</filepath> file in
                        <filepath>/etc/apt/sources.list.d</filepath>. The file should contain the
                    repository for your distribution. Repositories are available for the following
                    distributions: <table id="table_trf_ymb_bq">
                        <tgroup cols="2">
                            <thead>
                                <row>
                                    <entry>Distribution</entry>
                                    <entry>Repository Entry</entry>
                                </row>
                            </thead>
                            <tbody>
                                <row>
                                    <entry>Precise (Ubuntu 12.04)</entry>
                                    <entry><codeph>deb http://packages.couchbase.com/ubuntu precise
                                            precise/main</codeph></entry>
                                </row>
                                <row>
                                    <entry>Trusty (Ubuntu 14.04)</entry>
                                    <entry><codeph>deb http://packages.couchbase.com/ubuntu trusty
                                            trusty/main</codeph></entry>
                                </row>
                                <row>
                                    <entry>Xenial (Ubuntu 16.04)</entry>
                                    <entry><codeph>deb http://packages.couchbase.com/ubuntu xenial
                                            xenial/main</codeph></entry>
                                </row>
                                <row>
                                    <entry>Debian Wheezy (Old Stable)</entry>
                                    <entry><codeph>deb http://packages.couchbase.com/ubuntu wheezy
                                            wheezy/main</codeph></entry>
                                </row>
                                <row>
                                    <entry>Debian Jessie (Stable)</entry>
                                    <entry><codeph>deb http://packages.couchbase.com/ubuntu jessie
                                            jessie/main</codeph></entry>
                                </row>
                            </tbody>
                        </tgroup>
                    </table></li>
            </ol><p>Note that only Ubuntu LTS (long term support) releases are supported. You may
                try to use an LTS repository for a non-LTS version, but success is not
                guaranteed.</p></section>
        
        
        
        
        <section>
            <title>Installing on Mac OS X with Homebrew</title>
            
            <p>The C SDK can be installed on Mac OS X via <xref href="http://brew.sh/" format="html"
                scope="external"
                >Homebrew</xref>:</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ brew update # Needed if upgrading to a newer version
$ brew install libcouchbase </codeblock>
            <p>If you are using an extension for a 32-bit interpreter (check by executing
                    <codeph>lipo -info /path/to/interp</codeph>), you should install the C SDK with
                the following
                command:<codeblock>$ brew install libcouchbase --universal</codeblock></p>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Installing binary packages without a repository</title>
            <p>You can install standalone packages by downloading a
                <!--<xref href="download-list.dita">TAR archive </xref>-->containing the necessary
                binary packages for your platform. </p>
            <screen spectitle="Installing RPMs manually">$ tar xf libcouchbase-2.4.0_centos62_x86_64.tar
$ cd libcouchbase-2.4.0_centos62_x86_64/
$ sudo rpm -ivh libcouchbase-devel-2.4.0-1.el6.x86_64.rpm libcouchbase2-core-2.4.0-1.el6.x86_64.rpm \
libcouchbase2-bin-2.4.0-1.el6.x86_64.rpm libcouchbase2-libevent-2.4.0-1.el6.x86_64.rpm
Preparing...                ########################################### [100%]
   1:libcouchbase2-core     ########################################### [ 25%]
   2:libcouchbase-devel     ########################################### [ 50%]
   3:libcouchbase2-bin      ########################################### [ 75%]
   4:libcouchbase2-libevent ########################################### [100%]</screen>
            <screen spectitle="Installing DEBs manually">$ tar xf libcouchbase-2.2.0_ubuntu1204_amd64.tar
$ cd libcouchbase-2.2.0_ubuntu1204_amd64
$ sudo dpkg -i libcouchbase2-core_2.2.0-2453_amd64.deb libcouchbase2-libevent_2.2.0-2453_amd64.deb \
libcouchbase-dev_2.2.0-2453_amd64.deb libcouchbase2-bin_2.2.0-2453_amd64.deb
Selecting previously unselected package libcouchbase2-core.
(Reading database ... 28297 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking libcouchbase2-core (from libcouchbase2-core_2.2.0-2453_amd64.deb) ...
Selecting previously unselected package libcouchbase2-libevent.
Unpacking libcouchbase2-libevent (from libcouchbase2-libevent_2.2.0-2453_amd64.deb) ...
Selecting previously unselected package libcouchbase-dev.
Unpacking libcouchbase-dev (from libcouchbase-dev_2.2.0-2453_amd64.deb) ...
Selecting previously unselected package libcouchbase2-bin.
Unpacking libcouchbase2-bin (from libcouchbase2-bin_2.2.0-2453_amd64.deb) ...
Setting up libcouchbase2-core (2.2.0-2453) ...
Processing triggers for man-db ...
Setting up libcouchbase2-bin (2.2.0-2453) ...
Setting up libcouchbase2-libevent (2.2.0-2453) ...
Setting up libcouchbase-dev (2.2.0-2453) ...
Processing triggers for libc-bin ...
ldconfig deferred processing now taking place</screen>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Installation from source</title>
            <p id="install-source">You may install the library from source either by downloading a
                source archive, or by checking out the <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbase/libcouchbase" format="html" scope="external"
                    >git repository</xref>. Follow the instructions in the archive's
                    <codeph>README.markdown</codeph> for further instructions.</p>
        </section>
        
        
        <section id="install-windows">
            <title>Windows Installation</title>
            <p>Windows binary packages can be found in
                <!--<xref href="download-list.dita"></xref>-->. Included are the header files,
                release and debug variants of the DLLs and import libraries, and release and debug
                variants of the command line tools. Note that the C SDK does not have any preferred
                installation path, and it is up to you to determine where to place
                    <codeph>libcouchbase.dll</codeph>.</p>
            <p>Be sure to select the proper package for the compiler and architecture your
                application is using.</p>
            <note>
                <p>If there are no binaries available for your visual studio version, then using a
                    binary from any other visual studio version is <i>likely</i> to work. Most of
                    the issues related to mixing Visual Studio binary versions involve changing and
                    incompatible C++ APIs or incompatible C Runtime (CRT) objects and functions.
                    Since the Couchbase C SDK does not expose a C++ API, and since it does not
                    directly expose any CRT functionality, it should be safe for use so long as your
                    application can link to the library at compile-time. The windows runtime linker
                    will ensure that each binary is using the appropriate version of the Visual C
                    Runtime (<i>MSVCRT.DLL</i>).</p>
            </note>
            <p>If for some reason you cannot use any of the prebuilt Windows binaries, follow the
                instructions in <i>installation from source</i> (above) to build on Windows.</p>
        </section>
        
        
        
        
    </body>
    
</topic>
