<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "generalTask.dtd">
<concept id="toplevel">
 <title>Managing Connections</title>
    <conbody>
        
        
        <section>
            <title>Creating a handle</title>
            <p>A library handle is created using the <apiname>lcb_create()</apiname> function which
                accepts an out-pointer to a handle and a parameters structure specifying some core
                options.</p>
            <codeblock>lcb_t instance = NULL;
lcb_create_st options;
memset(&amp;options, 0, sizeof options);
options.version = 3;
options.v.v3.connstr = "couchbase://10.3.53.2/my-bucket";
options.v.v3.passwd = "s3cr3t";
lcb_error_t rc = lcb_create(&amp;instance, &amp;options);
if (rc != LCB_SUCCESS) {
    printf("Couldn't create handle: %s\n", lcb_strerror(NULL, rc));
}</codeblock>
            <p>The <parmname>connstr</parmname> contains a <i>connection string</i> (this is similar
                to the concept of a <i>DSN</i> in other database systems). The connection string
                allows you to specify the host(s) of the cluster nodes, the name of the bucket and
                additional library settings. The connection string also allows you to specify SSL
                connections (if applicable).</p>
            <p>Because the C SDK is used as a foundation for other SDKs, it allows for a common
                connection specification over all those other SDKs.<note>See <xref
                        href="client-settings.dita#toplevel"/>, which contains some additional
                    connection string options.</note></p>
            <p>If the bucket is password protected, the <parmname>passwd</parmname> field may be
                set. Note that the bucket password (set when creating a bucket) is not the same as
                the administrative password for Couchbase.</p>
            <p>When creating a new handle, you can also specify an alternate event loop plugin to
                use. This is required if you want to use your library in non-blocking mode with your
                existing non-blocking application.</p>
            <p>Once your handle has been instantiated you may configure it additionally using the
                <apiname>lcb_cntl()</apiname> family of functions.</p>
            <p>Note that a successful <apiname>lcb_create</apiname> invocation does not mean the
                handle has been connected to the bucket, but rather that memory has been allocated
                for the handle so that it may be connected in subsequent calls.</p>
        </section>
        <section><title>Connecting a handle</title><p>Once a handle has been instantiated it should
            be connected. Connecting a handle involves performing the following steps:<ol
                id="ol_n3l_kfb_mv">
                <li>Calling <apiname>lcb_connect</apiname> to schedule the connection.</li>
                <li>Yielding to network I/O, either explicitly via <apiname>lcb_wait</apiname>
                    or implicitly by returning control to the event loop</li>
                <li>Retrieving the connection status via
                    <apiname>lcb_get_bootstrap_status</apiname>. If running in non-blocking
                    mode, installing the bootstrap callback
                    (<apiname>lcb_get_bootstrap_callback</apiname>) should have a similar
                    effect<codeblock>lcb_error_t rc;
rc = lcb_connect(instance);
if (rc != LCB_SUCCESS) {
    /* Couldn't schedule connection. Internal issue or problem with the socket */
    printf("Couldn't schedule bootstrap!: %s\n", lcb_strerror(NULL, rc));
    lcb_destroy(instance);
}
lcb_wait(instance);
rc = lcb_get_bootstrap_status(instance);
if (rc != LCB_SUCCESS) {
    printf("Bootstrapping failed: %s\n", lcb_strerror(NULL, rc));
    lcb_destroy(instance);
}</codeblock></li>
            </ol></p>Always check the return value of
            <apiname>lcb_get_bootstrap_status</apiname> to ensure the handle is properly
            connected. Performing operations on a non-bootstrapped handle will fail with
            <apiname>LCB_CLIENT_ETMPFAIL</apiname>.</section>
        <section><title>Handle lifetime</title><p>The <apiname>lcb_t</apiname> object (commonly
            referred to as <i>instance</i>) represents a connection between your application and
            a Couchbase bucket. Because the bucket itself may consist of several TCP
            connections, and because there is a substantial amount of CPU and kernel overhead in
            creating and destroying these connections, it is recommended that
            <apiname>lcb_t</apiname> objects be kept alive for the lifetime of the
            application rather than creating and destroying them frequently.</p>Once the
            <apiname>lcb_t</apiname> is no longer required, you can call
            <apiname>lcb_destroy()</apiname> on it. The handle should not be destroyed within a
            callback as it will likely cause it to crash. Additionally, memory leaks may occur if
            there are pending uncompleted operations (e.g. <apiname>lcb_get3</apiname>,
            <apiname>lcb_store3</apiname>).</section>
        <section><title>Configuring the handle</title>Once the handle is created, it may be <xref
                href="client-settings.dita#toplevel">configured</xref> by the
                <apiname>lcb_cntl</apiname> and <apiname>lcb_cntl_string</apiname>
            functions.</section>
        <section id="connstr-begin"/>
        <section id="ssl">
            <title>Connecting with SSL</title>
            <p>Couchbase Sever features the ability to have clients communicate securely via
                SSL.</p>
            <p>To use SSL, you need Couchbase Server Enterprise 3.0 or later</p>
            <ol id="ol_x3l_kfb_mv">
                <li><xref href="../../security/security-admin-access.dita#security-admin-access"
                        >Obtain the SSL certificate</xref> used by the Cluster</li>
                <li>Make the certificate available to the file system of the client host.</li>
                <li>Employ the <codeph>couchbases://</codeph> scheme for the connection string.</li>
                <li>Specify the local path to the certificate as the value for the
                    <codeph>certpath</codeph> field.</li>
            </ol>
            <p>To connect to a bucket on an SSL-enabled Cluster at the node 10.3.4.33, with the
                certificate saved as <codeph>/var/cbcert.pem</codeph>:
                <codeblock outputclass="language-c">couchbases://10.3.4.33?certpath=/var/cbcert.pem</codeblock></p>
        </section>
        <section id="multihost">
            <title>Specifying Multiple Hosts</title>
            <p>You can specify multiple hosts in the connection string so that the client may be
                able to connect even if the cluster topology changed. To specify multiple hosts,
                separate them using a
                comma:<codeblock>couchbase://host1.com,host2.com,host3.com</codeblock>See <xref
                    href="failure-considerations.dita#topic_wxg_cwb_mv"/> for more information about
                handling cluster topology changes.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="configcache">
            <title>Configuration Cache</title>
            <p>In environments when lots of short-lived connections are made to Couchbase (for
                example, a small command-line utility or a fork-and-execute CGI application) the
                overhead in actually bootstrapping the client may be significant. This is because
                the client must retrieve the configuration from the cluster, and involves several
                additional TCP requests and in many cases an additional TCP connection.</p>
            <p>You can bypass the initial network bootstrap phase by using the
                    <codeph>config_cache</codeph> directive in the connection string. The
                    <codeph>config_cache</codeph> option accepts a path to a local file (the file
                should not exist when using for the first time). When performing the bootstrap
                process, the client will first check the contents of the given file to see if it
                contains an existing cluster configuration, and if it does, will use the file as the
                bootstrap source. If the file does not contain a configuration the client will then
                retrieve the configuration from the network and then write it to the file, so that
                future attempts will use the configuration file.<note type="danger">The
                        <codeph>config_cache</codeph> feature is intended only for short-lived
                    connections. During a cluster-side topology change the client <i>will</i> need
                    to retrieve the configuration from the network as the file-based configuration
                    will become invalid.</note></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Additional Options</title>
            <p>You can pass additional options in the connection string using the URL query format:
                        <codeph>couchbase://<i>location-info</i>?option1=value1&amp;option2=value2&amp;optionN=valueN</codeph>.
                A list of options may be found in <xref keyref="client-settings" href="client-settings.dita" format="dita">Client Settings</xref></p>
        </section>
        <section id="connstr-end"/>
    </conbody>
  </concept>
