<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_t2b_zsb_mv">
    <title>Managing Clusters Using the C (libcouchbase) SDK with Couchbase Server</title>
    <titlealts><navtitle>Managing Clusters</navtitle></titlealts>
    <body>
        <p>The primary means for managing clusters is through the Couchbase Web UI which provides an
            easy to use interface for adding, removing, monitoring and modfying buckets. In some
            instances you may wish to have a programmatic interface, for example if running as part
            of a setup script, or if setting up buckets for testing.</p>
        <p>You may perform Couchbase management operations from any HTTP client (e.g.
            <i>libcurl</i>). The C SDk comes with an embedded HTTP client which may also be used to
            execute management operations. The SDK also provides high level management functions for
            dealing with N1QL indexes.</p>
        <section>
            <title>HTTP Client Overview</title>
            <p>The HTTP client is used via the <apiname>lcb_http3()</apiname> function. This
                function takes an <apiname>lcb_CMDHTTP</apiname> structure containing the endpoint
                to contact and any payload information.</p>
            <p>The <parmname>lcb_CMDHTTP::type</parmname> field should be set to the appropriate API
                type for the operation. The types are:<ul id="ul_trk_yy2_2w">
                    <li><apiname>LCB_HTTP_TYPE_VIEWS</apiname> for design document management</li>
                    <li><apiname>LCB_HTTP_TYPE_MANAGEMENT</apiname> for adding/removing/modifying
                        buckets</li>
                </ul>You should also set the URL path via <apiname>LCB_CMD_SET_KEY</apiname>. The
                path should be the full path to the API endpoint, but without the host and
                scheme.</p>
            <p>Other important fields within the <apiname>lcb_CMDHTTP</apiname> structure are:<ul
                    id="ul_s1n_d2f_2w">
                    <li><parmname>username</parmname>, <parmname>password</parmname>: The username
                        and password to use for authorization. This may be left empty (in which
                        case, the bucket credentials are used), or populated with the administrative
                        credentials in the case of cluster management operations.</li>
                    <li><parmname>method</parmname>: The HTTP method to use. This is represented by
                        one of the <codeph>LCB_HTTP_METHOD_*</codeph> constants, for example
                            <apiname>LCB_HTTP_METHOD_POST</apiname> or
                            <apiname>LCB_HTTP_METHOD_GET</apiname>.</li>
                    <li><parmname>body</parmname>, <parmname>nbody</parmname>: If the request
                        requires a payload, it should be specified in these fields, which contain
                        the body buffer and its size, respectively.</li>
                    <li><parmname>content_type</parmname>: If using a request <i>body</i>, many
                        Couchbase REST APIs will also require that the <codeph>Content-Type</codeph>
                        HTTP header be set. Be sure to set this to the appropriate value (usually
                            <codeph>"application/json"</codeph>).</li>
                </ul><codeblock>// Install the callback..
lcb_install_callback3(instance, LCB_CALLBACK_HTTP, (lcb_RESPCALLBACK)http_callback);

// Create the required parameters according to the Couchbase REST API
std::string path("/pools/default/buckets");

std::string params;
params += "name=newBucket&amp;";
params += "type=couchbase&amp;";

// authType should always be SASL. You can leave the saslPassword field
// empty if you don't want to protect this bucket.
params += "authType=sasl&amp;saslPassword=&amp;";
params += "ramQuotaMB=256";
printf("Using %s\n", params.c_str());

lcb_CMDHTTP htcmd = { 0 };
LCB_CMD_SET_KEY(&amp;htcmd, path.c_str(), path.size());
htcmd.body = params.c_str();
htcmd.nbody = params.size();
htcmd.content_type = "application/x-www-form-urlencoded";
htcmd.method = LCB_HTTP_METHOD_POST;
htcmd.type = LCB_HTTP_TYPE_MANAGEMENT;
htcmd.username = "Administrator";
htcmd.password = "123456";
lcb_http3(instance, NULL, &amp;htcmd);</codeblock></p>
            <p>And in the
                callback:<codeblock>static void
http_callback(lcb_t, int, const lcb_RESPHTTP *resp)
{
    printf("Operation completed with HTTP code: %d\n", resp->htstatus);
    printf("Payload: %.*s\n", (int)resp->nbody, resp->body);
}</codeblock></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>N1QL Index Management</title>
            <p>You can manage N1QL indexes using the <apiname>lcb_n1x_create</apiname> family of
                functions which will create, destroy, and list N1QL indexes. Refer to the
                    <codeph>&lt;libcouchbase/ixmgmt.h></codeph> file for more details.</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
