<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="concept_tvx_nhq_44">
    <title>MapReduce Views</title>
    <shortdesc>You can use MapReduce views to create queryable secondary indexes in Couchbase
        Server. </shortdesc>
    <body>
        <section conref="../shared/views.dita#toplevel/views-intro"/>
        <section conref="../shared/views.dita#toplevel/example-beer"/>
        <p>In the C client library, query results are delivered on a per-row basis to a given
			callback, which is specified at query time.</p>
        <p>Querying a view is performed through the <apiname>lcb_view_query()</apiname> function. To
			use this function, include the <filepath>&lt;libcouchbase/views.h></filepath> file.</p>
        <p>First, a handler function is defined to deal with each row (and at the end, any metadata)
            of the query:</p>
        <p><codeblock outputclass="language-c" spectitle="Per-Row callback">static void viewCallback(lcb_t instance, int ign, const lcb_RESPVIEWQUERY *rv)
{
    if (rv->rflags &amp; LCB_RESP_F_FINAL) {
        printf("*** META FROM VIEWS ***\n");
        fprintf(stderr, "%.*s\n", (int)rv->nvalue, rv->value);
        return;
    }

    printf("Got row callback from LCB: RC=0x%X, DOCID=%.*s. KEY=%.*s\n",
        rv->rc,
        (int)rv->ndocid, rv->docid,
        (int)rv->nkey, rv->key);

    if (rv->docresp) {
        printf("   Document for response. RC=0x%X. CAS=0x%lx\n",
            rv->docresp->rc, rv->docresp->cas);
    }
}
</codeblock>This
			callback is invoked for each row. The end of the query (when no more rows to return) is
			signaled by having the <codeph>LCB_RESP_F_FINAL</codeph> bit set in the response's
				<codeph>rflags</codeph> field.</p>
        <p>The response structure contains a <codeph>key</codeph> and <codeph>nkey</codeph>,
				<codeph>value</codeph> and <codeph>nvalue</codeph>, and <codeph>docid</codeph> and
				<codeph>ndodic</codeph> fields that contain the buffer and lengths for the emitted keys
			and values of the view result and the corresponding document ID. The final row (the one
			with the <codeph>LCB_RESP_F_FINAL</codeph> flag set) contains the "shell" of the response
			(that is, any errors, debug information, and the <codeph>total_rows</codeph> field) in the
				<codeph>value</codeph> field.</p>
        <p>All the fields (except <codeph>docid</codeph>) are JSON encoded and should be decoded by
            a JSON decoder before use.</p>
        <p>To actually invoke the query, populate the request
            structure:<codeblock outputclass="language-c">lcb_CMDVIEWQUERY vq = { 0 };
lcb_view_query_initcmd(&amp;vq, "beer", "by_name", NULL, viewCallback);
lcb_error_t rc = lcb_view_query(instance, NULL, &amp;vq);
if (rc != LCB_SUCCESS) {
    // Handle error
}
lcb_wait(instance);</codeblock>The
                <apiname>lcb_view_query_initcmd()</apiname> convenience function allows you to
            populate the command structure with common parameters. Unlike most library operations,
            the callback here is specific to the operation rather than global.</p>
        <p>Of course, the command structure can also be populated manually:</p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-c">lcb_CMDVIEWQUERY vq = { 0 };
vq.ddoc = "beer";
vq.nddoc = strlen(vq.ddoc);
vq.view = "by_name";
vq.nview = strlen(vq.view);
vq.callback = viewCallback;
lcb_error_t rc = lcb_view_query(instance, NULL, &amp;vq);
if (rc != LCB_SUCCESS) {
    // ...
}
lcb_wait(instance);</codeblock>
    </body>
</topic>
