<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_qbs_wpm_lq">
  <title>Encryption on the Wire</title>
  <shortdesc>Couchbase encrypts the data moving between client and server, between servers within a
    cluster, and between data centers. </shortdesc>
<body>
  <section><title>Data moving between client and server</title>
    <note type="note">Starting with version 4.0, Couchbase Server uses the TLS protocol by default for encrypted interactions. 
      The server supports both TLS 1.0-1.2 for XDCR. Which version it uses depends on the source and target clusters.</note>
    <p>Data moving between client and server needs to be protected from any attackers eavesdropping
        on the connection. Couchbase Server enables encrypted data access using SSL/TLS for
        client-server communications.</p>
    <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Secure administrative access</dt>
          <dd>Couchbase Server also includes support for secure administrative access, which enables
            administrators to administer the server securely through the browser using a public
            network. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl><dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Secure data access</dt>
          <dd>When you enable SSL/TLS, data in transit to and from the server is encrypted using the
            server certificate configured and stored in the client certificate store.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></section>
  
  <section><title>Data Moving Between Servers within a Cluster</title>
    <p>Your data has to be available all the time (24x7x365), and your applications must be able to
        access that data even if any of the servers in the cluster dies. To ensure high
        availability, Couchbase Server replicates data within the cluster and across data
        centers.</p>
      <p>If you encrypt all your sensitive data in the documents, the replica copies will be
        transmitted as is (encrypted) and stored. For added security, it is a good security practice
        to use IPSec on the network that connects the Couchbase server nodes. </p>
    <p>IPSec has two modes: tunnel mode and transport mode. 
      We recommend using IPSec with the transport mode, as it is easier to setup than the tunnel mode 
      and does not require creating tunnels between all pairs of Couchbase nodes. </p><p>To learn more about setting up transport mode IPSec for Couchbase, see the blog <xref
          href="http://blog.couchbase.com/2016/june/configuration-ipsec-for-a-couchbase-cluster"
          format="html" scope="external">"Configuring IPsec for a Couchbase Cluster"</xref>.
      </p></section>
  <section><title>Data Moving Between Data Centers</title>
    <p>To protect sensitive data transmitted among data centers in different geo-locations, you can
        use TLS to encrypt your XDCR connection. When you enable TLS in XDCR, Couchbase Server uses
        TLS certificates, and all traffic between source and destination datacenters will be
        encrypted. The encryption causes a slight increase in the CPU load.</p>
    <p>It is a good security practice to rotate the XDCR
        certificates periodically, as per your organization's security policy.</p>
    </section>
</body>
</topic>
