<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_zlw_zqx_tv">
  <title>Troubleshooting X.509 Certificate Configuration</title><shortdesc>Error messages connected to the configuration of cluster and node certificates in
    Couchbase.</shortdesc>
  <body>
   <section><title>Cluster CA Certificates</title>
 
   
     <p>Here are a few error messages that you might encounter when configuring the cluster CA
        certificate and suggested corrective actions:</p>
     <p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_fsj_r3d_5v">
          <title>Error messages when configuring cluster CA certificates</title>
          <tgroup cols="3">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Couchbase Error Message</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
                <entry>Suggested User Action</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>Certificate should not be empty</codeph></entry>
                <entry>This error message can occur if the request body of the certificate is
                  empty.</entry>
                <entry>Open the certificate file, and verify whether it is empty or not. The
                  certificate file should be readable using openssl or via online SSL tools such as
                    <xref href="https://www.sslchecker.com/certdecoder" format="html"
                    scope="external">sslcheker </xref>. </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>Certificate is not valid at this time</codeph></entry>
                <entry>This error message can occur if the certificate has expired, or is not yet
                  valid.</entry>
                <entry>Verify whether the certificate validity dates (begins on, and expires on) are
                  currently valid corresponding to the server clock time.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>Malformed certificate</codeph></entry>
                <entry>This error message can occur due to many reasons - an extra space in the
                  certificate digest body, incorrect certificate format, and so on. </entry>
                <entry>Use a properly configured certificate, and make sure it’s readable using
                    <codeph>openssl</codeph>. It should look as follows: Certificate begins with
                  <p><codeph>-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----</codeph></p><p>and ends with</p><p><codeph>
                   -----END CERTIFICATE-----</codeph></p><p>on a new line with no spaces before or after.</p></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>Only one certificate per request is allowed</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Appears when the file contains more than one key or certificate.</entry>
                <entry>Open the <codeph>.pem</codeph> file, and make sure that it has only a single
                  certificate digest (such as single <codeph>BEGIN CERTIFICATE,</codeph>
                  <codeph>END CERTIFICATE</codeph> pragmas).</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>Encrypted certificates are not supported </codeph></entry>
                <entry>This error message can occur if you are trying to load a certificate that is
                  encrypted. Verify by opening the certificate file. If you see something like shown
                  below, you will know your certificate is encrypted.: <p><codeph>-----BEGIN RSA
                      PRIVATE KEY-----</codeph></p></entry>
                <entry>Couchbase does not support encrypted certificates. Decrypt the certificate
                  with <codeph>openssl</codeph> before loading the certificate in Couchbase.
                  <codeblock>openssl rsa -in privateKey.pem -out newPrivateKey.pem </codeblock></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>Invalid certificate type: ~s </codeph></entry>
                <entry>Appears when a header other than <codeph>BEGIN CERTIFICATE</codeph> has been
                  found.</entry>
                <entry>Open the certificate file, and verify whether it is a valid certificate. The
                  certificate file should be readable using <codeph>openssl</codeph> or via online
                  SSL tools such as <xref href="https://www.sslchecker.com/certdecoder"
                    format="html" scope="external">sslchecker</xref>.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </p>
   </section>
    <section><title>Node Certificates</title>
    
      <p>Here are few error messages that you might encounter when configuring the node certificate, and suggestive corrective action:</p>
   <p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_u3d_bkd_5v">
          <title>Error messages when configuring node certificates</title>
          <tgroup cols="3">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Couchbase Error Message</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
                <entry>Suggested User Action</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>Cluster CA needs to be set before setting node
                  certificate</codeph></entry>
                <entry>This error can occur when your cluster is still using the self-generated
                  certificate, and you are attempting to configure a node certificate.</entry>
                <entry>Set up the cluster CA certificate before configuring the per node
                  certificate.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>Incorrectly configured certificate chain. &lt;Error></codeph></entry>
                <entry>Denotes an invalid certificate in the chain file when configuring Couchbase. </entry>
                <entry>Chain file should contain a sequence of PEM (base64) encoded X.509
                  certificates ordered from leaf to and including the intermediate certificate
                  authorities.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>Unable to read private key file &lt;Path>. &lt;Error></codeph>
                </entry>
                <entry><codeph>&lt;Error></codeph> is one of the file read errors. </entry>
                <entry>Make sure that you have copied an un-encrypted version of the private key
                  file to the inbox folder on the Couchbase node.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>Unable to read certificate chain file &lt;Path>. &lt;Error>
                  </codeph></entry>
                <entry><codeph>&lt;Error></codeph> is one of the file read errors.</entry>
                <entry>Make sure that you have copied an un-encrypted version of the chain file to
                  the inbox folder on the Couchbase node.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>Invalid private key type: &lt;Type></codeph></entry>
                <entry>The private key has an unsupported header.</entry>
                <entry>Make sure that you use a valid private key file.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>Provided certificate doesn't match provided private
                  key</codeph></entry>
                <entry>The certificate doesn't recognize the message signed with a private
                  key.</entry>
                <entry>Be sure that you use a complete key pair</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>Encrypted keys are not supported</codeph></entry>
                <entry>The private key is encrypted.</entry>
                <entry>Couchbase does not support encrypted keys. You should decrypt the private key
                  with OpenSSL before loading the certificate in Couchbase. </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>Provided private key contains incorrect number of
                  entries</codeph></entry>
                <entry>The private key is a chain of entries.</entry>
                <entry>The private key file should contain a single key digest.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>Malformed or unsupported private key format</codeph></entry>
                <entry>The private key cannot be used.</entry>
                <entry>Open the key file, and verify whether it is a valid private key. The
                  certificate file should be readable using <codeph>openssl</codeph>.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>File does not exist</codeph></entry>
                <entry>The file is missing, does not exist.</entry>
                <entry>Add the missing file.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>Missing permission for reading the file, or for searching one of the
                    parent directories</codeph></entry>
                <entry>You don't have the proper permissions to read the file or to search its
                  parent directories.</entry>
                <entry>Change the permissions to allow you to read the file.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </p>
            
      
      
    </section>      
    
    
      
 
  </body>
</topic>
