<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="toplevel">
    <title>Error Types</title>
    <body>
        <section id="begin"/>
        <section id="devguide-data-errors">
            <title>Data Errors</title>
            <p>Data errors are errors returned by the server because a certain data condition
                was not met. Data errors typically have very clear corrective paths.</p>
            <p><b>Document Does not Exist</b></p>
            <p>If a document is not found, then it has either not yet been created or has since been
                deleted. It is received on retrieval (<i>get</i>) operations (get a document),
                    <i>replace</i> operations (replace a document that already exists), and
                    <i>remove</i> operations (delete a document).</p>
            <p>If this error is received when attempting to retrieve a document, then the item should
                either be created (if possible) or return an error to the user.</p>
            <p>If this error is received when replacing a document, then it indicates an issue in the
                application state (perhaps you can raise an exception up the stack). If you do not
                care that the document exists, the <i>upsert</i> method may be used instead which ignores this case.</p>
            <p>If receiving this error when removing an document, it may safely be ignored: not-found on
                remove essentially means the item is already removed.</p>
            <p>The <i>Not Found</i> error is returned by the server.</p>
            <p><b>Document Already Exists</b></p>
            <p>The <i>insert</i> operation requires that the document does not exist yet; it is intended to
                create a new unique record (think about inserting a "new user ID"). This error is
                returned by the server when a document already exists. Applications at this point
                should probably return an error up the stack to the user (when applicable); for
                example indicating that a new account could not be registered with the given user
                name, since it already exists.</p>
            <p><b>CAS Mismatch</b></p>
            <p>A <xref href="../concurrent-mutations-cluster.dita">CAS</xref> mismatch error is
                returned when an operation was executed with a CAS value (supplied by the
                application) and the CAS value passed differs from the CAS value on the server. The
                corrective course of action in this case is for the application to re-try the
                read-update cycle as explained in detail in the CAS documentation.</p>
           <p><b>Document too Big</b></p>
           <p>If the maximum content size is larger than 20MB the server responds with an error noting that it can't store it since it is
             too big. This error is not transient and must be raised up the stack since it likely indicates an application error that
             creates too large document contents.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="devguide-transient-errors">
            <title>Transient and Resource Errors</title>
            <p>These errors may be received because of resource starvation.</p>
            <p><b>Temporary Failure</b></p>
            <p>This error is received when the server is temporarily inhibiting an error that doesn't allow it to respond
              successfully. For example during mutations when the cluster node has run out of memory or is currently warming up.
                Its disk and replication queues are full and must wait until items in those queues
                are stored and replicated before it can begin receiving new operations.</p>
            <p>While this condition is rare, it may happen under massively concurrent writes from
                clients and a limited memory allocation on the server.</p>
            <p>The short-term corrective action for this error is to throttle and slow down the
                application, giving Couchbase some time for pending operations to complete (or to
                complete warmup) before issuing new operations. The long term corrective action is
                to increase memory capacity on the cluster, either by adding more RAM to each node,
                or by adding more nodes. The above example shows (in pseudo-code) how to handle a
                temporary failure error with a linear
                backoff.<codeblock>MAX_RETRIES = 5
BASE_DELAY = 50 // milliseconds

current_attempts = 1
do {
    try {
        bucket.upsert(id, document)
        break
    } catch (TemporaryFailure error) {
        sleep(BASE_DELAY * current_attempts)
    }
} while (++current_attempts != MAX_RETRIES)</codeblock></p>
            <p><b>Out Of Memory</b></p>
            <p>This error indicates a severe condition on the server side and probably needs to be logged and/or signaled
              to monitoring systems. There is not much the application can do there to mitigate the situation other than
              backing off significantly and waiting until the server side memory shortage is resolved.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="end"/>
    </body>
</topic>
