<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="toplevel">
    <title>Failure Considerations</title>
    <shortdesc id="shortdesc">Networks and nodes may fail from time to time. Often, Couchbase will automatically
        handle the failure transparently and not require any user intervention. In some cases
        however, Couchbase may be unable to automatically handle the failure condition, which will
        result in errors reported to the application. This page discusses how to develop Couchbase
        applications to function in times of node or network failure.</shortdesc>
    <body>
        <section id="begin"/>
        <section>
            <p>Failover is the means by which a node is removed from the cluster and all its owned vBuckets
            are immediately:<ul id="ul_afc_lwb_mv">
                <li>Transferred to a replica node (if there are replica nodes)</li>
                <li>Marked offline (if there are no replica nodes).</li>
            </ul></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>What to expect in an application during failure</title>
            <p>When a node fails (as opposed to <i>fails over</i>) the client library will be unable
                to contact the node. Operations may either time out (if the node has become
                unresponsive; for example if the OS kernel has crashed) or fail immediately with a
                network error (if the node is actively rejecting connections; for example if the
                Couchbase service was shut down).</p>
            <p>Your life can be made much simpler by simply receiving a code of
                <i>SERVER</i>_IS_DOWN the moment a node became unavailable. This, however, is
                usually not the case. The most common type of failure is an unresponsive node or
                broken network - which results in often-cryptic <i>Timeout</i> errors (or <i>Queue
                    Full</i>). Unfortunately timeout errors can also be received when a network (or
                server) is genuinely slow (as opposed to crashed).</p>
            <p>The client library will generally not retry timed-out operations: by definition, a
                timed out operation is an operation which could not be completed within a given
                amount of time. Likewise the application should not retry a timed-out operation. The
                recommended action is to report the failure up the stack.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>What to expect during Failover</title>
            <p>Couchbase offers a feature called <i>Failover</i> which allows an offending node to
                be removed from the cluster, immediately transferring all its vBucket resources (as
                opposed to rebalance, which transfers these resources incrementally). Failover can
                either be done manually, or automatically (more on this later).</p>
            <p>After the offending node has been failed over the client will detect the node down
                within a matter of seconds. When the SDK detects a node has been failed over, it
                will remove it internally from its list of cluster nodes.</p>
            <p>Further operations operations will either succeed or fail depending on the status of
                the cluster after the failover:<ul id="ul_u4y_ywb_mv">
                    <li>If there are remaining replicas the operations will succeed as normal - just
                        as before the server failed</li>
                    <li>If there are no remaining replicas, operations destined for the failed node
                        will now fail with a "NO NODE AVAILABLE" error. This error will continue to
                        be returned for operations belonging to the relevant vBuckets until
                        either:<ul id="ul_ljb_1xb_mv">
                            <li>The failed node is re-added to the cluster</li>
                            <li>The cluster is rebalanced (and thus any data on the old node is
                                lost)</li>
                        </ul></li>
                </ul></p>
        </section>
        <section id="missing-nodes">
            <title>Handling missing nodes</title>
            <p>A <i>Missing Node</i> error is reported when the cluster is in a degraded state. One
                of the cluster nodes has been failed over and no replica exists to take its place.
                As a result, a portion of the cluster’s dataset becomes unavailable.</p>
            <p>Recovering from this scenario is possible only through administrative action. The
                administrator must either re-add the node or rebalance the cluster in order to make
                the rest of the cluster’s data accessible again.</p>
            <p>The SDK will periodically check to see if the cluster is no longer in a degraded
                state; thus even when the cluster’s state is corrected it may still take some time
                for this information to be propagated across the clients.</p>
            <p>Missing nodes may also affect client bootstrap, as the IP or hostname present in the
                connection parameters may no longer be up or part of the cluster. You may specify
                    <i>multiple</i> hostnames or IP addresses in the connection parameters. When
                multiple hosts are supplied, the SDK will attempt to connect to each host in the
                list until a bootstrap attempt has succeeded, or until a timeout has been
                reached.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Timeouts</title>
            <p>Timeouts are returned by the client when an operation is waiting too long for an
                acknowledgment from the server. The length of time a client waits for an a response
                from the server is configurable (see your language’s Couchbase SDK reference for how
                to configure it).</p>
            <p>Timeouts are caused by an unresponsive network or software system. Possible causes
                are:<ol id="ol_j53_lxb_mv">
                    <li>Congested network.</li>
                    <li>Heavy CPU load on the server.</li>
                    <li>Heavy CPU load on the client.</li>
                    <li>Physical disruption between client and server</li>
                </ol>Applications should generally <b>not</b> retry an operation if it resulted in a
                timeout before performing corrective action and/or analysis to determine the cause
                of these timeouts.</p>
            <p>If your application cannot simply return an error but must ensure that the operation
                completes, it is suggested that you wait a while until retrying (similar to the
                mechanism used when receiving a temporary failure).<hazardstatement>
                    <messagepanel id="messagepanel_kbb_trs_zs">
                        <typeofhazard>Timeout does not mean the operation failed.</typeofhazard>
                        <howtoavoid>It is important to note that receipt of a timeout error does not
                            mean the operation did not complete. It means the server did not respond
                            in a timely fashion. It is possible that the operation completed on the
                            server, but the acknowledgment response was not received by the client.
                            If the CAS of the item is known, you may use it to guard against
                            performing the same operation twice.</howtoavoid>
                    </messagepanel>
                </hazardstatement></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Network Failures</title>
            <p>Network errors are returned by the client if it cannot establish a network connection
                to the server, or if an existing network connection was terminated. The cause of a
                network error may be included in the error object itself (for example, couldn’t
                resolve host name, connection refused, no route to host).</p>
            <p>Like timeout errors, network errors may be transient (indicative of a bad network
                connection). They may also be a result of a node being failed over.</p>
            <p>Applications may retry operations which failed with network errors after waiting for
                a while (as in timeout errors]. Retrying operations too soon may result in creating
                massive amounts of <codeph>TIME_WAIT</codeph> connections on the client, and in
                extreme cases, even cause system crashes or rendering it inaccessible via the network.<hazardstatement>
                    <messagepanel id="messagepanel_sbr_zrs_zs">
                        <typeofhazard>Network error does not indicate the failure of the
                            operation</typeofhazard>
                        <howtoavoid>As in timeout errors], it is not possible to determine if an
                            operation was actually completed if it resulted in a network
                            error.</howtoavoid>
                    </messagepanel>
                </hazardstatement>For cases where it is of the utmost importance to retrieve the
                item, a <xref href="#concept_ybj_tqs_zs/devguide-replica-read" format="dita">read
                    from a replica</xref> can be performed. This will retrieve a potentially stale
                item.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="devguide-replica-read">
            <title>Reading from replicas</title>
            <p>High-availability applications can read documents from replicas, exchanging
                consistency for availability.</p>
            <p>If your bucket is configured for replication, then multiple replicas of each item
                exist within the cluster. By default the client will attempt to access an item using
                its computed master or active node. This returns the current and authoritative
                version of the item as it is stored within Couchbase.</p>
            <p>In conditions where access to the active node is unavailable (for example, it is
                disconnected from the network), an application may be able to access a replica
                version of the item using the <i>get-from-replica</i> operation which queries a
                replica node for a copy of the item. <note>The item received from a replica node may
                    be an older version. It is possible a newer version exists in the active node,
                    but did not manage to get replicated before the active node went
                    offline.</note></p>
            <codeblock>try:
  result = cb.get("docid")
except CouchbaseNetworkError as e:
  print "Got error. Fetching from replica!"
  result = cb.get(‘docid’, replica=True)</codeblock>
        </section>
        <section id="end"/>
    </body>
    
</topic>
