<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_fdm_qq2_2w">
  <title>Running your first N1QL Query</title>
    <shortdesc>Documents in Couchbase may be queried based on their contents using the N1QL query
        language. The N1QL query language is inspired by SQL, but also contains special syntax and
        extensions for dealing with flexible and nested JSON documents. This section will show you
        how to execute N1QL queries on Couchbase documents using the command line query shell
            (<codeph>cbq</codeph>) as well as the web-based Query Workbench.</shortdesc>
  <body>
        <p>You can refer to <xref href="../n1ql.dita#toplevel"/> for a more thorough overview
            of the N1QL query language and how to use it with SDKs.</p>
        <section><title>Prerequisites</title>To use N1QL queries, your cluster must have at least
            one node with the query and index services enabled. The examples in this documentation
            will assume you have <xref href="../../settings/install-sample-buckets.dita"
                >travel-sample</xref> bucket installed. You can query other buckets as well, so long
            as they have <xref href="#toplevel/indexes">indexes</xref> defined<p>This document
                assumes some familiarity with SQL. If you have never used SQL, you can follow the
                N1QL tutorial [TODO: Link].</p></section>
        <section>
            <title>Querying via cbq</title>
            <p>The interactive shell <xref href="../../tools/cbq-shell.dita#topic_bzd_zwr_w5"
                        ><cmdname>cbq</cmdname></xref> for executing N1QL queries is shipped with
                Couchbase Server and designed to be run on a cluster node:</p>
            <p>
                <ol id="ol_enb_5r2_2w">
                    <li>Ensure you are logged into a shell (e.g. <codeph>bash</codeph>) on one of
                        the cluster nodes,
                        e.g.<codeblock>ssh unixuser@node-ip-address</codeblock></li>
                    <li>Navigate to the Couchbase tools directory, which varies based on the
                        operation
                        system<codeblock>cd /opt/couchbase/bin</codeblock><codeblock>cd /"Applications/Couchbase Server.app/Contents/Resources/couchbase-core/bin"</codeblock></li>
                    <li>Run <codeph>./cbq</codeph>
                        <screen>mnunberg@mbp15II /Applications/Couchbase Server.app/Contents/Resources/couchbase-core/bin $ ./cbq
No Input Credentials. In order to connect to a server with authentication, please provide credentials.
Connected to : http://localhost:8093/. Type Ctrl-D to exit.

cbq> <b>SELECT airportname, city, country FROM `travel-sample` WHERE type="airport" AND city="Reno";</b>
{
    ...
    "results": [
        {
            "airportname": "Reno Tahoe Intl",
            "city": "Reno",
            "country": "United States"
        }
    ],
    "status": "success",
    "metrics": {
    ...
    }
}</screen></li>
                </ol>
            </p>
            <p>The above example selects all documents that have a <codeph>type</codeph> of
                    <i>airport</i> and a <codeph>city</codeph> of <i>Reno</i>.</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
