<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_kgx_xdp_1w">
  <title>Querying with N1QL</title>
    <shortdesc>You can search Couchbase for documents which match certain properties or satisfy
        certain criteria. Querying can solve programming tasks such as finding a user profile by
        either an email, facebook login, or user ID. You can query for documents in Couchbase using
        the N1QL query language, a language based on SQL, but designed for structured and flexible
        JSON documents.</shortdesc>
  <body>
        <section><title>Prerequisites</title>To use N1QL queries, your cluster must have at least
            one node with the query and index services enabled. The examples in this documentation
            will assume you have <xref href="../../settings/install-sample-buckets.dita"
                >travel-sample</xref> bucket installed. You can query other buckets as well, so long
            as they have [indexes defined](....).<p>This document assumes some familiarity with SQL.
                If you have never used SQL, you can follow a tutorial about N1QL
            &lt;here>..</p></section>
        <section><title>Query Execution</title><p>You can issue N1QL queries using either a
                Couchbase SDK, the <i>cbq</i> shell, the <i>cbc</i> command line tool, the REST API,
                or the <xref href="../../tools/query-workbench.dita">Query workbench</xref> [Developer
                Preview].</p>A N1QL query is a string parsed by the query server, and as the result
            for each query is essentially JSON, queries will function the same regardless of whether
            they are executed using the <cmdname>cbq</cmdname> shell, an SDK, or using the REST API
            directly. Nevertheless, the result format received using an SDK may be a bit different
            than that received using <cmdname>cbq</cmdname> or the REST API.</section>
        <section>
            <title>Running cbq</title>
            <p><xref href="../../tools/cbq-shell.dita#topic_bzd_zwr_w5"
                    ><cmdname>cbq</cmdname></xref> is an interactive shell for executing N1QL
                queries, and is designed to be run on a cluster node. It is shipped with Couchbase
                Server. It may be <xref href="../../cli/cli-intro.dita#topic_c4y_k5d_54">located
                    alongside the other couchbase tools</xref> (by default,
                    <codeph>/opt/couchbase/bin/</codeph> on Linux,<codeph> /Applications/Couchbase
                    Server.app/Contents/Resources/couchbase-core/bin/cbq</codeph> on OS X, and
                    <codeph>C:\Program Files\Couchbase\Server\bin\cbq.exe</codeph> on Microsoft
                Windows).</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Issuing Queries</title>
            <p>Queries are issued in the SDK using the <i>query</i> operation. This API accepts a
                string which is the statement to execute, and returns the rows (or an iterable
                object which returns rows) representing the query’s result. Here is an example of a
                query executed in
                Python:<screen>>>> <b>for row in cb.n1ql_query('SELECT type FROM `travel-sample` LIMIT 4'):</b>
...   <b>print(row)</b>
... 
{'type': 'airline'}
{'type': 'airline'}
{'type': 'airline'}
{'type': 'airport'}</screen></p>
            <p>The above query using <i>cbq</i> (some output truncated for
                clarity):<screen>cbq> <b>SELECT type FROM `travel-sample` LIMIT 4;</b>
{
    ...
    "results": [
        {
            "type": "airport"
        },
        {
            "type": "airport"
        },
        {
            "type": "airport"
        },
        {
            "type": "airport"
        }
    ],
    "status": "success",
    "metrics": {
    ...
    }
}</screen></p>
            <p>The result is a JSON object. The important field within the object is the
                    <codeph>results</codeph> property, which contains an array of results (a result
                set). Each item within the result set may be thought of as a <i>row</i>. Each row
                contains those document fields selected in the <xref
                    href="../../n1ql/n1ql-language-reference/selectclause.dita"
                    ><codeph>SELECT</codeph></xref> clause.<note>Couchbase SDKs provide a row-based
                    API which returns an object which can be iterated over. Internally however, the
                    response looks like the <i>cbq</i> output above.</note></p>
            <p>If you use aliases in your query, then the returned rows contained the aliased name
                rather than the original name. For
                example:<codeblock outputclass="language-python">>>> for row in cb.n1ql_query('SELECT airportname <b>as</b> n FROM `travel-sample` where type="airport" LIMIT 4'):
...   print(row)
... 
{'<b>n</b>': 'Calais Dunkerque'}
{'<b>n</b>': 'Peronne St Quentin'}
{'<b>n</b>': 'Les Loges'}
{'<b>n</b>': 'Couterne'}</codeblock></p>
        </section>
        <section><title>Specifying query criteria</title><p>N1QL's true strength is the ability to
                query documents satisfying given criteria, querying for documents whose properties
                evaluate to certain values or expressions. Specifying criteria is done much in the
                same manner as in SQL: Using a <xref
                    href="../../n1ql/n1ql-language-reference/where.dita#concept_zvb_dgk_np"
                        ><codeph>WHERE</codeph></xref> clause. Multiple conditions can be specified
                using the <codeph>AND</codeph> or <codeph>OR</codeph> keywords.</p><p>The following
                example selects all documents that have a <codeph>type</codeph> of <i>airport</i>
                and have a <codeph>city</codeph> of
                <i>Reno</i>.<screen>cbq> <b>SELECT airportname, city, country FROM `travel-sample` WHERE type="airport" AND city="Reno";</b>
{
    ...
    "results": [
        {
            "airportname": "Reno Tahoe Intl",
            "city": "Reno",
            "country": "United States"
        }
    ],
    "status": "success",
    "metrics": {
    ...
    }
}</screen></p>Note
            that you should use <xref href="#topic_kgx_xdp_1w/devguide-named-placeholders"
                format="dita">query placeholders</xref>, as it is not only more secure, but also
            allows your query to be prepared and optimized for reuse.</section>
        <section>
            <title>Querying nested documents</title>
            <p>The above queries showed how to query top-level fields within a document. One of the
                main differences between JSON and flat rows is that JSON allows a nested structure,
                allowing documents to contain other documents, also known as sub-documents. In N1QL
                you can use the path syntax to query and address sub-documents. See <xref
                    href="../../n1ql/n1ql-intro/queriesandresults.dita#topic_1_2"/> for more
                information on the path syntax.</p>
            <screen>cbq> <b>SELECT airportname, city, country, geo.alt FROM `travel-sample` WHERE type="airport" AND geo.alt > 4000 AND country="United States" LIMIT 3;</b>
{
    ...
    "results": [
        {
            "airportname": "Cheyenne Rgnl Jerry Olson Fld",
            "alt": 6156,
            "city": "Cheyenne",
            "country": "United States"
        },
        {
            "airportname": "Pueblo Memorial",
            "alt": 4726,
            "city": "Pueblo",
            "country": "United States"
        },
        {
            "airportname": "Cedar City Rgnl",
            "alt": 5622,
            "city": "Cedar City",
            "country": "United States"
        }
    ],
    "status": "success",
    "metrics": {
    ...
    }
}</screen>
            <p>The actual airport document looks like this. Note that the <codeph>geo</codeph> field
                itself contains a JSON object. In couchbase, this is known as a
                <i>sub-document</i>.<screen>{
   "geo" : {
      "lat" : 37.700967,
      "alt" : 5622,
      "lon" : -113.098847
   },
   "tz" : "America/Denver",
   "id" : 3824,
   "type" : "airport",
   "city" : "Cedar City",
   "country" : "United States",
   "icao" : "KCDC",
   "faa" : "CDC",
   "airportname" : "Cedar City Rgnl"
}</screen></p>
        </section>
        <section id="devguide-named-placeholders"><title>Query placeholders (Dynamic
                parameters)</title><p>Query placeholders allow your application to securely use
                dynamic query parameters for your application. In this section, the placeholders
                feature is demonstrated using the SDK.</p><p>Consider a function which returns all
                airports located within a given city (passed as input). The query may be divided
                into a <i>fixed</i> or <i>static</i> part (select all airports in a city) and a
                    <i>dynamic</i> part (the actual city to search, specified via user
                input).</p><p>A naive implementation of this function might look something like
                this:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-python">def airports_in_city(city):
  query_string = "SELECT airportname FROM `travel-sample` WHERE city="
  query_string += '"' + city + '"'
  return cb.n1ql_query(query_string)</codeblock>The
            approach above is both unwieldy and insecure (subject to SQL injection attacks).<p>N1QL
                allows the use of placeholders to declare dynamic query parameters. Here's a version
                of the above using
                placeholders:<codeblock outputclass="language-python">def airports_in_city(city):
  query_string = "SELECT airportname FROM `travel-sample` WHERE city=<b>$1</b>"
  query = N1QLQuery(query_string, city)
  return cb.n1ql_query(query)</codeblock>The
                    <codeph>$1</codeph> is a positional placeholder. When the query is constructed,
                it may receive arguments, with each argument being used as the placeholder value in
                the query. Thus, <codeph>$1</codeph> refers to the first
                    argument,<codeph>$2</codeph> to the second, and so on.</p><p>Placeholders may
                also be <i>named</i>. This is particularly useful when there are many query
                parameters and ensuring that they are all in the correct order may be cumbersome.
                Name query placeholders take the form of
            <codeph>$name</codeph>.</p><codeblock outputclass="language-python">query_string = (
"SELECT airportname FROM `travel-sample`"
"WHERE country=$country "
"AND geo.alt > $altitude "
"AND (geo.lat BETWEEN $min_lat AND $max_lat) "
"AND (geo.lon BETWEEN $min_lon AND $max_lon "
)</codeblock>Then
            to issue the actual
            query:<codeblock outputclass="language-python">query = N1QLQuery(
    query_string,
    country=”United States”,
    altitude=500, min_lat=-50, max_lat=50, min_lon=-180, max_lon=0)</codeblock></section>
        <section id="prepare-stmts"><title>Query optimization using prepared (optimized)
                statements</title>When a N1QL query string is sent to the server, the server will
            inspect the string and parse it, planning which indexes to query. Once this is done, it
            generates a <i>query plan</i>. The computation for the plan adds some additional
            processing time and overhead for the query.<p>Often-used queries can be <i>prepared</i>
                so that its <i>plan</i> is generated only once. Subsequent queries using the same
                query string will use the pre-generated <i>plan</i> instead, saving on the overhead
                and processing of the plan each time.</p><p>You can indicate to the SDK that a given
                query should be optimized in the above fashion. When an SDK sees that a query should
                be optimized, it will internally prepare the statement and store the plan in an
                internal cache. When issuing the query again, the SDK will check to see if a plan
                exists in its cache, and will send the plan to the server.</p><p>To indicate that an
                SDK should optimize a query, the <parmname>adhoc</parmname> parameter should be set
                to false. When a query is not <i>ad-hoc</i>, the SDK will fetch the plan (if it does
                not already have it). Do not turn off the <i>adhoc</i> flag for each query since
                only a finite number of query plans (currently 5000) can be stored in the SDK.</p><p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-python">query = N1QLQuery("SELECT airportname FROM `travel-sample` WHERE country=$1", "USA")
q.adhoc = False</codeblock>
                <note>Parameterized queries are considered the same query for caching and planning
                    purposes, even if the supplied parameters are different.</note>
            </p><p>For more information on how to optimize queries using prepared statements, see
                    <xref href="../../n1ql/n1ql-language-reference/prepare.dita">PREPARE</xref>
                statement in <cite>N1QL language reference</cite>.</p></section>
        <section>
            <title>Indexes</title>
            <p>The Couchbase query service makes use of <i>indexes</i> in order to do its work.
                Indexes replicate subsets of documents from data nodes over to index nodes, allowing
                specific data (for example, specific document properties) to be retrieved quickly,
                and also to distribute load away from data nodes.</p>
            <p>In order to make a bucket queryable, it should have some indexes defined. You can
                define indexes over given document fields and then use those fields in the
                query:<codeblock>CREATE INDEX ix_name ON `users`(name);
CREATE INDEX ix_email ON `users`(email);</codeblock>Would
                allow you to query the <i>users</i> bucket regarding a document's
                    <codeph>name</codeph> or <codeph>email</codeph> properties, so
                e.g.<codeblock>SELECT name, email FROM `users` WHERE name="Monty Python" OR email="monty@python.org";</codeblock>Indexes
                help improve the performance of a query. When an index includes the actual values of
                all the fields specified in the query, the index covers the query and eliminates the
                need to fetch the actual values from the Data Service. An index, in this case, is
                called a covering index and the query is called a covered query. For more
                information, see <xref href="../../indexes/covering-indexes.dita#concept_yv4_c2z_wt"
                />.</p>
            <p>You can define a <i>primary index</i> on a bucket. When a <i>primary</i> index is
                defined you can issue non-covered queries on the bucket as well. This includes using
                the <codeph>META</codeph> function in the
                queries.<codeblock>CREATE PRIMARY INDEX ON `users`</codeblock></p>
            <p>You can also create and define indexes in the SDK using
                <codeblock outputclass="language-python">cb.bucket_manager().create_n1ql_primary_index(ignore_exists=True)
cb.bucket_manager().create_n1ql_index('index_name', fields['name'])
cb.bucket_manager().create_n1ql_index('index_email', fields['email'])</codeblock></p>
        </section>
        <section><title>Index Building</title>Creating indexes can take a long time on buckets with
            lots of existing documents. You can build indexes in the background, creating
                <i>deferred</i> indexes and then building all deferred indexes at once. This allows
            multiple indexes to be built at once rather than having to re-scan the entire bucket for
            each
            index.<codeblock>CREATE PRIMARY INDEX ON `users` WITH {"defer_build": true};
CREATE INDEX ix_name ON `users`(name) WITH {"defer_build": true};
CREATE INDEX ix_email ON `users`(email) WITH {"defer_build": true};
BUILD INDEX ON `users`(`#primary`, `ix_name`, `ix_email`);</codeblock>The
            indexes are actually built when the <codeph>BUILD INDEX</codeph> statement is executed.
            At this point, the server scans all the documents in the <codeph>users</codeph> bucket
            and indexes it for all of the applicable indexes (i.e. if it has a <codeph>name</codeph>
            or <codeph>email</codeph>) field.<p>Building deferred indexes can also be done via the
                SDK:</p><p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-python">mgr.create_n1ql_primary_index(ignore_exists=True, defer=True)
mgr.create_n1ql_index('ix_name', fields=['name'], defer=True)
mgr.create_n1ql_index('ix_email', fields=['email'], defer=True)
mgr.build_n1ql_deferred_indexes()
mgr.watch_n1ql_indexes(('ix_name', 'ix_email', '#primary'), timeout=120)</codeblock>
            </p></section>
        <section>
            <title>Index Consistency</title>
            <p>Because indexes are by design outside the data service, they are always a secondary
                source of information and may at times not contain the most up-to-date information.
                This may especially be the case when deployed in a write-heavy environment: changes
                may take some time to propagate over to the index nodes.</p>
            <p>The asynchronous updating nature of indexes mean that they are very quick to query
                and do not cause any performance hit on the data service: N1QL queries are forwarded
                to the relevant indexes and the queries are done based on indexed information,
                rather than the documents as they exist in the data service. This also means however
                that changes made in the data service but have not yet been received in the index
                service are not visible to the query.</p>
            <p>By default, the query service will rely on the current index state: the most
                up-to-date document versions are not retrieved, and only the indexed versions are
                queried. This provides the best performance, and does not usually sacrifice on
                consistency - only updates occurring with a small time frame may not yet have been
                indexed.</p>
            <p>You can instruct the query service to use the latest versions of documents by
                modifying the <apiname>consistency</apiname> of the query. This is done by setting
                the <apiname>consistency</apiname> or <apiname>scan_consistency</apiname> property
                of the query to <apiname>REQUEST_PLUS</apiname>. When using this consistency mode,
                the query service will ensure that the indexes are synchronized with the data
                service before querying.</p>
            <p>Consider the following
                snippet:<codeblock outputclass="language-python">from couchbase.n1ql import N1QLQuery, CONSISTENCY_REQUEST

# Ensure there is a primary index on the default bucket!
RANDOM_NUMBER = random.randint(0, 10000000)

cb = Bucket('couchbase://10.0.0.31/default')
cb.upsert('user:{}'.format(RANDOM_NUMBER), {
    'name': ['Brass', 'Doorknob'],
    'email': ['brass.doorknob@juno.com'],
    'random': RANDOM_NUMBER
})

query = N1QLQuery(
    'SELECT name, email, random, META(default).id FROM default WHERE $1 IN name', 'Brass')
row = cb.n1ql_query(query).get_single_result()</codeblock>The
                above query may not return the newly inserted document because it has not yet been
                indexed. The query is issued immediately after document creation, and in this case
                the query engine may process the query before the index has been updated.</p>
            <p>If the above code is modified to use <apiname>CONSISTENT_REQUEST</apiname>, the new
                server will wait until all updates (current to the point in time the query was
                received) are
                indexed:<codeblock outputclass="language-python">query = N1QLQuery(
    'SELECT name, email, random, META(default).id FROM default WHERE $1 IN name', 'Brass')
# If this line is removed, the latest 'random' field might not be present
<b>query.consistency = CONSISTENCY_REQUEST</b>
row = cb.n1ql_query(query).get_single_result()</codeblock></p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
