<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dev-install-server">
  <title>Developer's Intro</title>
  <body>
        <section
            conref="../shared/install-couchbase.dita#ReusableComponent_fb4_psc_kv/section_gb4_psc_kv"/>
        <section>
            <title>Using Couchbase</title>
            <p>Now that you've installed the server, you can start storing, retrieving, and querying
                documents with Couchbase. You can start with an SDK, the command-line cbc tool, or
                the web browser.</p>
            <p>Every item in a database goes through the basic <i>CRUD</i> cycle, which is typical
                of an application’s use of data. CRUD stands for create, read, update, and
                delete:</p>
            <ul id="ul_snj_cr2_gv">
                <li>
                    <p><b>C</b>reate: when data is first inserted into the cluster</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>R</b>ead: when an application retrieves the data</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>U</b>pdate: when data is modified to reflect a change in the state
                        represented by the data</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>D</b>elete: when the data is no longer needed</p>
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p>The following examples use the <xref
                    href="webui-cli-access.dita#concept_j3z_zhm_zs/cli-access">CLI</xref> interface
                to demonstrate the basic CRUD operations. If you don’t know how to use or install
                the command line client, don’t worry - we’ll walk through the steps in the next
                chapter.</p>
        </section>
        <section><title>Creating documents</title><p>Create the document <i>mnunberg.json</i>. It
                can be anywhere on your file
                system:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">{
    "name": "Mark Nunberg",
    "email": "mark.nunberg@couchbase.com",
    "privs": ["admin"],
    "location": {
        "country": "United States",
        "state": "NV",
        "city": "Reno"
    },
    "following": [
        "u:tgreenstein", "u:ingenthr", "u:potus"
    ],
    "likes": ["doge", "pastries"]
}</codeblock><p>Now,
                insert the document into Couchbase using the <i><codeph>cbc</codeph></i>
                utility:</p><screen>$ <b>cbc create --mode insert mnunberg &lt; mnunberg.json</b></screen><codeph>mnunberg</codeph>
            is the document’s ID. The command pipes the document's content to the
                <cmdname>cbc</cmdname> command’s standard input.</section>
        <section>
            <title>Reading documents by ID</title>
            <p>Documents can be retrieved using their IDs. Retrieving a document by ID is extremely
                fast. The following query takes about 1 millisecond.</p>
            <screen>$ <b>cbc cat mnunberg</b>
{
    "name": "Mark Nunberg",
    "email": "mark.nunberg@couchbase.com",
    "privs": ["admin"],
    "location": {
        "country": "United States",
        "state": "NV",
        "city": "Reno"
    },
    "following": [
        "u:tgreenstein", "u:ingenthr", "u:potus"
    ],
    "likes": ["doge", "pastries"]
}</screen>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Reading documents by querying</title>
            <p>Retrieving a document may be done using a unique identifier assigned by the
                application at the document’s creation, or by inspecting its contents to see if it
                matches a certain criteria. ID lookups are quicker, but querying documents allows
                for richer search capabilities (for example, "Give me all likes and followed users
                located in the US?" versus "Give me a user with the ID e3d882a4").</p>
            <screen>$ <b>cbc n1ql \</b>
  <b>'SELECT following, likes FROM default WHERE location.country = "United States"'</b>
       {
            "following": [
                "u:tgreenstein",
                "u:ingenthr",
                "u:potus"
            ],
            "likes": [
                "doge",
                "pastries"
            ]
</screen>
        </section>
        <section><title>Updating documents</title><p>Updating a document means changing the existing
                document. For example, take the file above and add a <codeph>likes</codeph>
                field:</p><screen>    ...
    "likes": ["doge", "pastries", <b>"couchbase"</b>]
    ....</screen>Then
            use the <cmdname>cbc</cmdname> tool to update the document in
            Couchbase:<screen>$ <b>cbc create --mode replace mnunberg &lt; mnunberg.json</b></screen></section>
        <section>
            <title>Deleting documents</title>
            <p>This example shows how to delete the document with the ID
                <codeph>mnunberg</codeph>.</p>
            <screen>$ <b>cbc rm mnunberg</b></screen>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Couchbase clients</title>
            <p>Clients access data by connecting to a Couchbase cluster over the network. The most
                common type of client is a Couchbase SDK which is a full programmatic API that
                enables applications to take the best advantage of Couchbase. The command line
                client provides a quick and streamlined interface for simple access and is suitable
                if you just want to access an item without writing any code.</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
