<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="toplevel">
    <title>MapReduce Views</title>
    <shortdesc>You can use MapReduce views to create queryable indexes in Couchbase Server.</shortdesc>
    <body>
        <section id="views-intro">
            <p>The normal CRUD methods allow you to look up a document by its ID. A MapReduce
                (<i>view</i> query) allows you to look up one or more documents based on various
                criteria. MapReduce views are comprised of a <i>map</i> function that is executed once per
                document (this is done incrementally, so this is not run each time you query the view) and
                an optional <i>reduce</i> function that performs aggregation on the results of the
                <i>map</i> function. The <i>map</i> and <i>reduce</i> functions are stored on the server
                and written in JavaScript.</p>
            <p>MapReduce queries can be further customized during query time to allow only a subset (or range) of the data
                to be returned.</p>
            <note type="tip">See the <xref href="../../architecture/incremental-map-reduce-views.dita"></xref> and
                <xref href="../../architecture/querying-data-with-views.dita"></xref> sections of the general documentation to learn more about views and their architecture.</note>
        </section>

        <section id="example-beer">
            <p>The following example is the definition of a <codeph>by_name</codeph> view in a <i>"beer"</i> design
                document. This view checks whether a document is a beer and has a name. If it does, it emits the
                beer's name into the index. This view allows beers to be queried for by name. For
                example, it's now possible to ask the question "What beers start with A?"</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">function (doc, meta) {
  if (doc.type &amp;&amp; doc.type == "beer" &amp;&amp; doc.name) {
     emit(doc.name, null);
  }
}</codeblock>
        </section>

        <section id="example-travel">
            <p>The following example is the definition of a <codeph>by_name</codeph> view in a <i>"landmarks"</i> design
              document in the<i> "travel-sample"</i> sample dataset. This view checks whether a document is
              a landmark and has a name. If it does, it emits the landmark's name into the index. This view
              allows landmarks to be queried for by it's <i>"name" </i>field.</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">function (doc, meta) {
    if (doc.type &amp;&amp; doc.type == "landmark" &amp;&amp; doc.name) {
        emit(doc.name, null);
    }
}</codeblock>
        </section>

        <section id="example-geo-travel">
            <p>A Spatial View can instead be queried with a <parmname>range</parmname> or <i>bounding box</i>.
                For example, let's imagine we have stored landmarks with coordinates for their home city (eg. Paris,
                Vienna, Berlin and New York) under <parmname>geo</parmname>, and each city's coordinates is represented
                as two attributes, <parmname>lon</parmname> and <parmname>lat</parmname>. The following spatial view map
                function could be used to find landmarks within Europe, as a <i>"by_location"</i> view in a
                <i>"spatial"</i> design document:</p>
            <codeblock>function (doc) {
    if (doc.type &amp;&amp; doc.type == "landmark" &amp;&amp; doc.geo) {
        emit([doc.geo.lon, doc.geo.lat], null);
    }
}</codeblock>
        </section>

        <section id="misc">
            <p id="retry">SDK retries view requests automatically on certain known conditions, which
                are represented in the following table:</p>
            <table>
                <tgroup cols="2">
                    <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" />
                    <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" />
                    <thead>
                        <row>
                            <entry>HTTP status code</entry>
                            <entry>Behavior</entry>
                        </row>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                        <row>
                            <entry>200</entry>
                            <entry>Do not retry request.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>300, 301, 302, 303, 307, 401, 408, 409, 412, 416, 417, 501, 502, 503, 504</entry>
                            <entry>Retry request.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>404</entry>
                            <entry>In case the library detects yet unprovisioned node, it will
                                retry. Otherwise, it will report
                                    <codeph>ViewDoesNotExistException</codeph>.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>500</entry>
                            <entry>If the error payload reports missing view document or badly
                                formed query, it will not retry. Otherwise, it will retry
                                request.</entry>
                        </row>
                    </tbody>
                </tgroup>
            </table>
            <p id="retry-end">All codes not listed in the table will not be retried by default.</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
