<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_dst_gtd_54">
	<title>Administration guide</title>
	<shortdesc>Administration of Couchbase Server is provided through a number of different tools and
		systems.</shortdesc>
	<body>
		<p>Administration tools used with Couchbase Server are the Couchbase Web Console, Command-line
			interface (CLI) and REST API.</p>
		<dl>
			<dlentry>
				<dt>Couchbase Web Console</dt>
				<dd>The built-in web administration console that provides a complete interface for
					configuring, managing, and monitoring your Couchbase Server installation.</dd>
			</dlentry>
		</dl>

		<dl>
			<dlentry>
				<dt>Command-line Interface (CLI)</dt>
				<dd>A suite of command-line tools that provide information and control over your
					Couchbase Server and cluster installation. The CLI tools make use of the REST API.
					You can use CLI in combination with your scripts and management procedures to provide
					additional functionality, such as automated failover, backups, and other procedures.
				</dd>
			</dlentry>
		</dl>

		<dl>
			<dlentry>
				<dt>REST API</dt>
				<dd>In addition to the Couchbase Web Console, Couchbase Server incorporates a management
					interface exposed through the standard HTTP REST protocol. This REST interface can be
					called from your custom management and administration scripts to support different
					operations.</dd>
			</dlentry>
		</dl>


		<section>
			<title>Accessing Couchbase Server directly</title>
			<p>To access Couchbase Server and use the CLI or REST API directly, log into the server
				directly (depending on the operating system). </p>
			<p>To access Couchbase Server and use the Couchbase Web Console, log into the server
				through a browser such as Firefox, Chrome, Safari, or Internet Explorer.</p>
		</section>


		<section>
			<title>Accessing Couchbase Server through a client</title>
			<p>If you already have an application that uses the memcached protocol, you can start using
				your Couchbase Server immediately. If so, you can simply point your application to this
				server as you would do with any other memcached server. No code changes or special
				libraries are needed, and the application behaves as it would against a standard
				memcached server. Without the client knowing anything about it, the data is being
				replicated, persisted, and the cluster can be expanded or contracted completely
				transparently.</p>
			<p>If you do not already have an application, then you should investigate one of the
				available Couchbase client libraries to connect to your server and start storing and
				retrieving information.</p>
		</section>
	</body>

</topic>
