<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_wqm_j2g_rn">
  <title>Limits</title>
  <shortdesc>Depending on the size of the documents passed to the view engine, the performance of
    Couchbase Server  may be affected. Couchbase Server specifies limits and limitations that may
    affect server usage and implementation.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
   
<simpletable relcolwidth="1.28* 1.0* 1.81*">
      <sthead>
        <stentry>Limit</stentry>
        <stentry>Default Value</stentry>
        <stentry>Description</stentry>
      </sthead>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Max key length</stentry>
        <stentry>250 bytes</stentry>
        <stentry>The maximum key length in a key-value pair.</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Max value size</stentry>
        <stentry>20 MB</stentry>
        <stentry>The maximum size of value in a key-value pair.</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Max bucket size</stentry>
        <stentry>unlimited</stentry>
        <stentry>The maximum size of a bucket. By default, the bucket size is unlimited.</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Max buckets per cluster </stentry>
        <stentry>10</stentry>
        <stentry>The maximum number of buckets in a cluster.<draft-comment author="amarantha">Need
            info on how users can adjust this number. (If this has to be documented as it is in
            http://docs.couchbase.com/admin/admin/Misc/limits.html )</draft-comment></stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Max view key size</stentry>
        <stentry>4096 bytes</stentry>
        <stentry>The maximum key size for a view.</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Max doc size for indexing </stentry>
        <stentry>20 MB</stentry>
        <stentry>The maximum size of a document that can be indexed. The default value is set to 20
          MB to ensure that all documents get indexed. <p>In Couchbase Server version 2.x and
            earlier, the view engine enforced a limit of 1MB on documents that can be indexed. As a
            result, when the size of a document exceeded the limit, the view engine (in version 2.x)
            did not index that document.</p></stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Max key-value size per document</stentry>
        <stentry>1 MB</stentry>
        <stentry>The maximum byte size allowed to be emitted for a single document and per view.
          This value is the sum of the sizes of all emitted keys and values. <p>If a document emits
            a key-value pair that exceeds the specified maximum key-value size per document, an
            error is logged and that document is not indexed.</p></stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Function timeout</stentry>
        <stentry>1000 ms</stentry>
        <stentry>The maximum duration (in milliseconds) to execute all the MapReduce functions in a
          design document against a single document (map function) or against a list of map values
          or reductions (reduce or rereduce function). If the execution time for a document exceeds
          the specified value, the execution is aborted and that document is not indexed.</stentry>
      </strow>
    </simpletable>
    
  </refbody>

</reference>
