<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ppz_lhq_44">
 <title>Managing server connections </title>
 <shortdesc></shortdesc>

<conbody>

	<section>
		<title>Configuring the client</title>

		<p>To configure the client, instantiate a new <codeph>Cluster</codeph> object:</p>
		<codeblock outputclass="language-php">$myCluster = new CouchbaseCluster('couchbase://10.4.4.1,10.4.4.2,10.4.4.3');</codeblock>
		<p>In addition to the connection string passed to the <codeph>Cluster</codeph> object, you can
			include a user name and password. The user name and password are required to perform
			management operations against your cluster. If you do not use the cluster management
			aspects of the SDK, the user name and password parameters are optional. Keep in mind that
			these credentials are the same ones you use to log in to the Couchbase administrator
			console, not those specified for the bucket itself. </p>
	</section>


	<section>

		<title>Connecting to a bucket</title>
		<p>To connect to a bucket, call the <codeph>openBucket()</codeph> method against your
			<codeph>Cluster</codeph> instance, passing in the name of the bucket that you want to
			connect to. If no bucket name is specified, the default bucket is opened. The following
			example shows how to connect to a bucket:</p>
		<codeblock outputclass="language-php">$myCluster = new CouchbaseCluster();
$myBucket = $myCluster->openBucket('default');</codeblock>
		<p>In addition to the bucket name, you can optionally include the bucket password if one has been
			defined, as shown in the following example:</p>
		<codeblock outputclass="language-php">$myCluster = new CouchbaseCluster();
$myBucket = $myCluster->openBucket('default', 'password');</codeblock>

		<p>To close the connection to a bucket, call its <codeph>disconnect()</codeph> method. This method
			queues the disconnection of all open connections and causes any pending operations to fail.
		</p>
	</section>


	<section>

		<title>Configuring SSL</title>

		<p>To configure SSL, pass an SSL scheme with your connection string when
			creating your cluster object.</p>
		<codeblock outputclass="language-php">$myCluster = new CouchbaseCluster('couchbases://10.1.1.1,10.1.1.2');
$myBucket = $myCluster->openBucket();</codeblock>
	</section>


</conbody>

</concept>
