<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">

<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept12604">
    <title>Managing beers</title> <shortdesc>First task is to show a list of beers in a table.</shortdesc>
	<conbody>
		<p>The table
			itself will contain the name of the beer and links to the brewery as well as buttons to
			edit or delete the beer. We’ll implement interactive filtering on the table later as well.
			The following code should be inserted after the <codeph>/</codeph> action to keep
			everything in order.</p>
		<codeblock outputclass="language-markup">$app->get('/beers', function() use ($app, $cb) {
    // Load all beers from the beer/by_name view
    $results = $cb->query(
        CouchbaseViewQuery::from("beer", "by_name")
            ->limit(INDEX_DISPLAY_LIMIT)
    );

    $beers = array();
    // Iterate over the returned rows
    foreach($results['rows'] as $row) {
        // Load the full document by the ID
        $doc = $cb->get($row['id']);
        if($doc) {
            // Decode the JSON string into a PHP array
            $doc = json_decode($doc->value, true);
            $beers[] = array(
                'name' => $doc['name'],
                'brewery' => $doc['brewery_id'],
                'id' => $row['id']
            );
        }

    }

    // Render the template and pass on the beers array
    return $app['twig']->render('beers/index.twig.html', compact('beers'));
});</codeblock>
		<p>We’re making use of our previously defined view <codeph>beer/by_name</codeph>. We also pass
			in a <codeph>limit</codeph> option to make sure we don’t load all documents returned by the
			view. The <codeph>results</codeph> variable stores the view response and contains the
			actual data inside the <codeph>rows</codeph> element. We can then iterate over the data set,
			but since the view only returns the document ID and we need more information, we fetch the
			full document through the <codeph>get()</codeph> method. If it actually finds a document by
			the given ID, we convert the JSON string to a PHP array and add it to the list of beers.
			The list is then passed on to the template to display it.</p>
		<p>The corresponding template <codeph>beers/index.twig.html</codeph> looks like this:</p>
		<codeblock outputclass="language-markup">{% extends "layout.twig.html" %}

{% block content %}
&lt;h3>Browse Beers&lt;/h3>

&lt;form class="navbar-search pull-left">
  &lt;input id="beer-search" type="text" class="search-query" placeholder="Search for Beers">
&lt;/form>

&lt;table id="beer-table" class="table table-striped">
  &lt;thead>
    &lt;tr>
      &lt;th>Name&lt;/th>
      &lt;th>Brewery&lt;/th>
      &lt;th>&lt;/th>
    &lt;/tr>
  &lt;/thead>
  &lt;tbody>
      {% for beer in beers %}
        &lt;tr>
          &lt;td>&lt;a href="/beersample-php/beers/show/{{beer.id}}">{{beer.name}}&lt;/a>&lt;/td>
          &lt;td>&lt;a href="/beersample-php/breweries/show/{{beer.brewery}}">To Brewery&lt;/a>&lt;/td>
          &lt;td>
            &lt;a class="btn btn-small btn-warning" href="/beersample-php/beers/edit/{{beer.id}}">Edit&lt;/a>
            &lt;a class="btn btn-small btn-danger" href="/beersample-php/beers/delete/{{beer.id}}">Delete&lt;/a>
          &lt;/td>
        &lt;/tr>
      {% endfor %}
    &lt;/tbody>
  &lt;/table>
{% endblock %}</codeblock>
		<p>Aside from normal HTML table markup, we make use of the <codeph>{% for beer in beers
				%}</codeph> block to loop over the beers array. We then print out each row and show the
			name of the beer, the link to the brewery and also buttons to edit and delete the beer.
			We’ll implement these methods in a minute.</p>
		<p>The next action we’re going to implement is the <codeph>show</codeph> action. When you
			click on a beer, it should display all attributes from the JSON document in a table so we
			can inspect them properly. Since everything is stored in one document, we just need to
			fetch it by the given ID, decode it from the JSON string and pass it on to the view. Very
			straightforward and performant:</p>
		<codeblock><codeph outputclass="language-markup">$app->get('/beers/show/{id}', function($id) use ($app, $cb) {
    // Get the beer by its ID
    $beer = $cb->get($id);
    if($beer) {
       // If a document was found, decode it
       $beer = json_decode($beer->value, true);
       $beer['id'] = $id;
    } else {
       // Redirect if no document was found
       return $app->redirect('/beers');
    }

    // Render the template and pass the beer to it
    return $app['twig']->render(
        'beers/show.twig.html',
        compact('beer')
    );
});
</codeph></codeblock>
		<p>The template iterates over the JSON attributes and prints their name and value accordingly.
			Note that some documents can contain nested values which is not covered here.</p>
		<codeblock outputclass="langugage-markup">{% extends "layout.twig.html" %}

{% block content %}
&lt;h3>Show Details for Beer "{{beer.name}}"&lt;/h3>
&lt;table class="table table-striped">
    &lt;tbody>
       {% for key,attribute in beer %}
        &lt;c:forEach items="${beer}" var="item">
            &lt;tr>
                &lt;td>&lt;strong>{{key}}&lt;/strong>&lt;/td>
                &lt;td>{{attribute}}&lt;/td>
            &lt;/tr>
          &lt;/c:forEach>
          {% endfor %}
    &lt;/tbody>
&lt;/table>
{% endblock %}</codeblock>
		<p>The next action we’re going to implement is the <codeph>delete</codeph> action.</p>
		<codeblock outputclass="language-php">$app->get('/beers/delete/{id}', function($id) use ($app, $cb) {
    // Delete the Document by its ID
    $cb->delete($id);
    // Redirect to the Index action
    return $app->redirect('/beersample-php/beers');
});</codeblock>
		<p>As you can see, the <codeph>delete</codeph> call is very similar to the previous
				<codeph>get</codeph> method. After the document has been deleted, we redirect to the
			index action. If we’d like to, we could get more sophisticated in here. For example, good
			practice would be to fetch the document first and check if the document type is
				<codeph>beer</codeph> to make sure only beers are deleted here. Also, it would be
			appropriate to return a error message if the document didn’t exist previously. Note that
			there is no template needed because we redirect immediately after deleting the
			document.</p>
		<p>Since we can now show and delete beers, its about time to make them editable as well. We now
			need to implement two different actions here. One to load the data set and one to actually
			handle the <codeph>POST</codeph> response. Take note that this demo code is not really
			suited for production, but it should give you a solid idea on how to implement the basics
			with Couchbase. In a production app, you need to add validation here to make sure only
			valid data is stored.</p>
		<codeblock outputclass="language-php">// Show the beer form
$app->get('/beers/edit/{id}', function($id) use ($app, $cb) {
    // Fetch the document
    $beer = $cb->get($id);
    if($beer) {
        // Decode the document
       $beer = json_decode($beer->value, true);
       $beer['id'] = $id;
    } else {
        // Redirect if no document was found
       return $app->redirect('/beers');
    }

    // Pass the document on to the template
    return $app['twig']->render(
        'beers/edit.twig.html',
        compact('beer')
    );
});

// Store submitted Beer Data (POST /beers/edit/&lt;ID>)
$app->post('/beers/edit/{id}', function(Request $request, $id) use ($app, $cb) {
    // Extract the POST form data out of the request
    $data = $request->request;

    $newbeer = array();
    // Iterate over the POSTed fields and extract their content.
    foreach($data as $name => $value) {
        $name = str_replace('beer_', '', $name);
        $newbeer[$name] = $value;
    }

    // Add the type field
    $newbeer['type'] = 'beer';

    // Encode it to a JSON string and save it back
    $cb->upsert($id, json_encode($newbeer));

    // Redirect to show the beers details
    return $app->redirect('/beersample-php/beers/show/' . $id);
});</codeblock>
		<p>The missing link between the <codeph>GET</codeph> and <codeph>POST</codeph> handlers is the
			form itself. The template is called <codeph>edit.twig.html</codeph> and looks like
			this:</p>
		<codeblock outputclass="language-markup">{% extends "layout.twig.html" %}

{% block content %}
&lt;h3>Edit Beer&lt;/h3>

&lt;form method="post" action="/beersample-php/beers/edit/{{beer.id}}">
    &lt;fieldset>
      &lt;legend>General Info&lt;/legend>
      &lt;div class="span12">
        &lt;div class="span6">
          &lt;label>Name&lt;/label>
          &lt;input type="text" name="beer_name" placeholder="The name of the beer." value="{{beer.name}}">

          &lt;label>Description&lt;/label>
          &lt;input type="text" name="beer_description" placeholder="A short description." value="{{beer.description}}">
        &lt;/div>
        &lt;div class="span6">
          &lt;label>Style&lt;/label>
          &lt;input type="text" name="beer_style" placeholder="Bitter? Sweet? Hoppy?" value="{{beer.style}}">

          &lt;label>Category&lt;/label>
          &lt;input type="text" name="beer_category" placeholder="Ale? Stout? Lager?" value="{{beer.category}}">
        &lt;/div>
      &lt;/div>
    &lt;/fieldset>
    &lt;fieldset>
        &lt;legend>Details&lt;/legend>
        &lt;div class="span12">
            &lt;div class="span6">
              &lt;label>Alcohol (ABV)&lt;/label>
              &lt;input type="text" name="beer_abv" placeholder="The beer's ABV" value="{{beer.abv}}">

              &lt;label>Biterness (IBU)&lt;/label>
              &lt;input type="text" name="beer_ibu" placeholder="The beer's IBU" value="{{beer.ibu}}">
            &lt;/div>
            &lt;div class="span6">
              &lt;label>Beer Color (SRM)&lt;/label>
              &lt;input type="text" name="beer_srm" placeholder="The beer's SRM" value="{{beer.srm}}">

              &lt;label>Universal Product Code (UPC)&lt;/label>
              &lt;input type="text" name="beer_upc" placeholder="The beer's UPC" value="{{beer.upc}}">
            &lt;/div>
        &lt;/div>
    &lt;/fieldset>
    &lt;fieldset>
        &lt;legend>Brewery&lt;/legend>
        &lt;div class="span12">
            &lt;div class="span6">
              &lt;label>Brewery&lt;/label>
              &lt;input type="text" name="beer_brewery_id" placeholder="The brewery" value="{{beer.brewery_id}}">
            &lt;/div>
        &lt;/div>
    &lt;/fieldset>
    &lt;div class="form-actions">
        &lt;button type="submit" class="btn btn-primary">Save changes&lt;/button>
    &lt;/div>
&lt;/form>
{% endblock %}</codeblock>
		<p>The only special part in the form are the Twig blocks like
				<codeph>{{beer.brewery_id}}</codeph>. They allow us to easily include the actual value
			from the field (when there is one). You can now change the values in the input fields, hit
				<codeph>Save changes</codeph> and see the updated document either in the web application
			or through the Couchbase Admin UI.</p>
		<p>There is one last thing we want to implement here. You may have noticed that the
				<codeph>index</codeph> page lists all beers but also has a search box on the top.
			Currently, it won’t work because the back end is not yet implemented. The JavaScript is
			already in place in the <codeph>assets/js/beersample.js</codeph> file, so look through it
			if you are interested. It just does an AJAX request against the server with the given
			search value, expects a JSON response and iterates over it while replacing the original
			table rows with the new ones.</p>
		<p>We need to implement nearly the same view code as in the <codeph>index</codeph> action, but
			this time we make use of two more view query parameters that allow us to only return the range
			of documents we need:</p>
		<codeblock outputclass="language-php">$app->get('/beers/search', function(Request $request) use ($app, $cb) {
    // Extract the search value
    $input = strtolower($request->query->get('value'));

    // Query the view
    $q = CouchbaseViewQuery::from('beer', 'by_name')
        ->limit(INDEX_DISPLAY_LIMIT)
        ->range($input, $input . '\uefff');
    $results = $cb->query($q);

    $beers = array();
    // Iterate over the resulting rows
    foreach($results['rows'] as $row) {
        // Load the corresponding document
        $doc = $cb->get($row['id']);
        if($doc) {
            // If the doc is found, decode it.
            $doc = json_decode($doc->value, true);
            $beers[] = array(
                'name' => $doc['name'],
                'brewery' => $doc['brewery_id'],
                'id' => $row['id']
            );
        }

    }
    // Return a JSON formatted response of all beers for the JavaScript code.
    return $app->json($beers, 200);
});</codeblock>
		<p>The <codeph>limit</codeph> method specifies the maximum number of documents to return. The
				<codeph>range</codeph> method defines start and end keys for the search. The special
			character concatenated to the end key, <codeph>'\uefff'</codeph> , means "end." Using this
			character assures that only documents beginning with the given search string are returned.
			This is a little trick that comes in very handy from time to time.</p>
		<p>The rest is very similar to the <codeph>index</codeph> action so we’ll skip the discussion for
			that. Also, we don’t need a template here because we can return the JSON response
			directly.</p>
		
	</conbody>
</concept>
