<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_z3r_zgq_44">
 <title>PHP SDK 2.0</title>
 <shortdesc>The Couchbase PHP SDK allows you to connect to a Couchbase cluster from PHP.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>The Couchbase PHP SDKis a native PHP
   extension and uses the Couchbase high-performance C library to handle communicating to the cluster
   over Couchbase binary protocols.</p>
 	<p>Here's a sampling of what you can do with the Couchbase PHP SDK:</p>
 	
  <section>
   <title>Connecting</title>
   <p>To connect to a bucket, simply instantiate a new CouchbaseCluster object to represent your
    cluster, and call the <codeph>openBucket()</codeph> method, passing in the name of the bucket
    that you want to connect to. If no bucket name is specified, the default bucket is opened. The
    following example shows how to connect to a bucket on localhost:</p>
   <codeblock outputclass="language-php">$myCluster = new CouchbaseCluster('couchbase://localhost');
$myBucket = $myCluster->openBucket('default');</codeblock>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Operations</title>
   <p>In most cases, operations are performed by invoking the relevant method whilst passing the
    key, any data and meta information that goes with it.  The operation will return the result of
    the operation, or alternatively throw an Exception if an error occurred.</p>
   <p>Here is an example of performing a get operations:</p>
   <codeblock outputclass="language-php">$res = $myBucket->get('document_name');
echo 'Value: ' . $res->value;</codeblock>
   <p>Additionally, sometimes more information beyond the key is needed for an operation, as seen
    here:</p>
   <codeblock outputclass="language-php">$myBucket->insert('document_name', array('some'=>'value'));</codeblock>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Performing Queries</title>
   <p>In addition to the basic operations that are available, we additional provide methods to
    perform queries against your data. These queries allow you to ask questions like "What beers
    start with A?" rather than simply "Give me the beer that is called Aaas_Frankl." This is
    possible through the use of Couchbase MapReduce views engine. The following is an example of
    performing a view query. </p>
   <codeblock outputclass="language-php">$query = CouchbaseViewQuery::from('beer', 'by_name')->skip(6)->limit(3);;
$results = $myBucket->query($query);</codeblock>
  </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
