<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept1245">
	<title>Tutorial</title><shortdesc>The PHP SDK tutorial shows you how to build a complete web application that interacts with
		Couchbase Server. </shortdesc>
	<conbody>
		<p>The PHP SDK tutorial uses a very powerful toolchain consisting of <xref
				href="https://getcomposer.org/" format="html" scope="external">Composer</xref>, <xref
				href="http://silex.sensiolabs.org/" format="html" scope="external">Silex</xref> and
				<xref href="http://twig.sensiolabs.org/" format="html" scope="external">Twig</xref> to
			build a solid web application fast while not losing the focus on showing you how to work
			with the PHP SDK.</p>
		<p>The tutorial uses the <codeph>beer-sample</codeph> data set that is provided with Couchbase
			Server to create an app that displays and manages beers and breweries. Along the way you’ll
			pick up concepts on querying Couchbase Server by keys or through views.</p>
		<p>The full code sample is available on <xref
				href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/beersample-php" scope="external" format="html"
				>GitHub</xref>. You can clone the repository and work from there if you just want to see
			the finished application or get started quickly.</p>
		<p>Before getting started, make sure you have the following dependencies in place:</p>
		<ul>
			<li>PHP 5.3 or later. The PHP SDK itself requires PHP 5.3 or later, and most of the other
				dependencies require PHP 5.3.</li> 
			<li><p><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/develop/php/current" scope="external" format="html"
						>Couchbase PHP SDK 2.0</xref> : Install the appropriate .so or .dll file,
					depending on your platform. Earlier versions of the SDK are not capable enough
					becauseit uses the new Couchbase Server view-related functionality.</p></li>
			<li><p><xref href="http://getcomposer.org/" scope="external" format="html">Composer</xref> : An
					excellent dependency manager for PHP and supported by major libraries and frameworks
					such as <xref href="http://www.doctrine-project.org/" format="html" scope="external"
						>Doctrine</xref> or <xref href="http://symfony.com/" format="html"
						scope="external">Symfony</xref>.</p></li>
		</ul>
	</conbody>
</concept>
