<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
  <topic id="async-programming-java">
	<title>Asynchronous Programming</title>
      <shortdesc>The Couchbase Java SDK has a complete asynchronous API based in part on RxJava.  This section provides information on how the asynchronous API can be used, how it works with Java platform and RxJava features and the kinds of error handling you will need to consider in application development.</shortdesc>
	<body>

		<section><title>Java 8, Lambdas and Anonymous Classes</title><p>Before jumping into the details,
                one thing warrants clarification: RxJava and, therefore, the Java SDK, fully support
                Java 8. This support brings some great improvements, most prominently support for
                    <term>lambdas</term> and <term>method references</term>.</p><p>Because the Java
                SDK has support for Java 6 and 7, most of the examples shown in the documentation
                use anonymous classes instead of lambdas. You are free and even encouraged to use
                them if you can, but Java 8 may not be an option for some.</p><p>To whet your
                appetite for why you may want to strongly consider these features, compare the same
                Java 6 code to Java 8:</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// Loads 3 documents in parallel
Observable
    .just("doc1", "doc2", "doc3")
    .flatMap(new Func1<String, Observable<JsonDocument>>() {
        @Override
        public Observable<JsonDocument> call(String id) {
            return bucket.get(id);
        }
    }).forEach(new Action1<JsonDocument>() {
        @Override
        public void call(JsonDocument document) {
            System.out.println("Got: " + document);
        }
    });]]></codeblock> Versus: <codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// Loads 3 documents in parallel
Observable
    .just("doc1", "doc2", "doc3")
    .flatMap(bucket::get)
    .forEach(document -> System.out.println("Got: " + document));]]></codeblock><p>RxJava has
                additional support for other languages such as Scala, Groovy, Kotlin or Clojure
                through language adapters. If you are using one of those, refer to the RxJava
                documentation on how to use the adapters.</p></section>

		<section>
			<title>Understanding Observables</title>

			<p>You can think of an <term>Observable</term> as the push-based, asynchronous cousin
                ("dual") of the pull-based, synchronous <term>Iterable</term>. The contract of
                an <codeph>Observable</codeph> is that zero to N data events can happen, followed by
                a complete event. An error event can also happen at any time and complete the
                    <codeph>Observable</codeph>.</p>

			<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_qpl_ttq_44">
   <title>The duality of Iterable and Observable</title>

   <tgroup cols="3">
    <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="4.39*"/>
    <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="4.29*"/>
    <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="4.4*"/>
    <thead>
     <row>
      <entry>Event</entry>
      <entry>Iterable (Pull)</entry>
      <entry>Observable (Push)</entry>
     </row>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <row>
        <entry>retrieve data</entry>
        <entry><codeph>T next()</codeph></entry>
        <entry><codeph>onNext(T)</codeph></entry>
      </row>
      <row>
        <entry>discover error</entry>
        <entry><codeph>throws Exception</codeph></entry>
        <entry><codeph>onError(Exception)</codeph></entry>
      </row>
      <row>
        <entry>complete</entry>
        <entry><codeph>returns</codeph></entry>
        <entry><codeph>onCompleted()</codeph></entry>
      </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
</table>

		<p>You can convert an <codeph>Observable</codeph> into a <codeph>BlockingObservable</codeph>,
                    which then behaves very much like the <codeph>Iterable</codeph>.</p>

		<p>The key element to take away is that an <codeph>Observable&lt;T&gt;</codeph> can emit 0 to N
                events, which is very different than a <codeph>Future&lt;T&gt;</codeph> that only
                contains one value. After you start to work on streams instead of single values, you
                will very much appreciate this fact.</p>

		<p>By definition, an <codeph>Observable</codeph> does not imply that the underlying code is
                executed asynchronously. As a consumer of an <codeph>Observable</codeph>, you leave
                the actual implementation to the supplier, who can change it later on without you
                having to adapt your code. Imagine, you are consuming this API:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[public interface FooService {
    Observable<String> load();
}]]></codeblock>

		<p>It could be that when <codeph>load()</codeph> is called, the <codeph>String</codeph> value is
                fetched right out of a <codeph>Map</codeph> in memory (or even a hard-coded value).
                In this case, there is no need to move the execution away from the caller thread,
                because the value will be returned instantaneously. If later the implementation
                needs to be changed so that the <codeph>String</codeph> is loaded through a web
                service (introducing latency and other semantics), the API doesn't need to be
                changed because the underlying implementation is free to move it to a
                    <codeph>Scheduler</codeph>.</p>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Consuming Observables</title>

			<p>The first thing you want to do when working with <codeph>Observables</codeph> is to consume them. Consuming an
				<codeph>Observable</codeph> means subscribing to it. Here is an example that subscribes and prints out
				all the items emitted:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .just(1, 2, 3)
    .subscribe(new Subscriber<Integer>() {
        @Override
        public void onCompleted() {
            System.out.println("Completed Observable.");
        }

        @Override
        public void onError(Throwable throwable) {
            System.err.println("Whoops: " + throwable.getMessage());
        }

        @Override
        public void onNext(Integer integer) {
            System.out.println("Got: " + integer);
        }
    });]]></codeblock>

    <p>The example prints the following lines:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[Got: 1
Got: 2
Got: 3
Completed Observable.]]></codeblock>

	<p>You can see that our <codeph>Subscriber</codeph> gets notified of every event and also receives
                the completed event.<note>A well-formed <codeph>Observable</codeph> invokes its subscriber’s
                        <codeph>onNext</codeph> method zero or more times and then invokes either
                    the <codeph>onCompleted</codeph> or <codeph>onError</codeph> method exactly
                    once.</note></p>

	<p>You can also test the error case by throwing an artificial exception when the value 2 is emitted:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .just(1, 2, 3)
    .doOnNext(new Action1<Integer>() {
        @Override
        public void call(Integer integer) {
            if (integer.equals(2)) {
                throw new RuntimeException("I don't like 2");
            }
        }
    })
    .subscribe(new Subscriber<Integer>() {
        @Override
        public void onCompleted() {
            System.out.println("Completed Observable.");
        }

        @Override
        public void onError(Throwable throwable) {
            System.err.println("Whoops: " + throwable.getMessage());
        }

        @Override
        public void onNext(Integer integer) {
            System.out.println("Got: " + integer);
        }
    });]]></codeblock>

    <p>The example prints:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[Got: 1
Whoops: I don't like 2]]></codeblock>

	<p>The first value gets through without problems, the second value throws an exception and,
                therefore, terminates the <codeph>Observable</codeph>. No subsequent values are allowed to be emitted
                after an error event.</p>

	<p><note>The <codeph>subscribe</codeph> method also returns a <codeph>Subscription</codeph> that you
                    can use to <codeph>unsubscribe</codeph> and not receive further events.</note></p>

	<p>Even if you don't unsubscribe explicitly, operations like <codeph>take</codeph> do that for you
				implicitly. The following code only takes the first five values and then
				unsubscribes:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .just("The", "Dave", "Brubeck", "Quartet", "Time", "Out")
    .take(5)
    .subscribe(new Subscriber<String>() {
        @Override
        public void onCompleted() {
            System.out.println("Completed Observable.");
        }

        @Override
        public void onError(Throwable throwable) {
            System.err.println("Whoops: " + throwable.getMessage());
        }

        @Override
        public void onNext(String name) {
            System.out.println("Got: " + name);
        }
    });]]></codeblock>

	<p>This prints:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[Got: The
Got: Dave
Got: Brubeck
Got: Quartet
Got: Time
Completed Observable.]]></codeblock>

		<p>You do not need to implement the full subscriber every time. If you are only interested in the
				data events, you can subscribe like this:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .just(1, 2, 3)
    .subscribe(new Action1<Integer>() {
        @Override
        public void call(Integer integer) {
            System.out.println("Got: " + integer);
        }
    });]]></codeblock>

    <p>Be aware though that if an error happens, the following exception will be propagated:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[Exception in thread "main" rx.exceptions.OnErrorNotImplementedException
	at rx.Observable$36.onError(Observable.java:8412)
	at rx.observers.SafeSubscriber._onError(SafeSubscriber.java:128)
	at rx.observers.SafeSubscriber.onError(SafeSubscriber.java:97)
	at rx.internal.operators.OperatorDoOnEach$1.onError(OperatorDoOnEach.java:67)
	at rx.internal.operators.OperatorDoOnEach$1.onNext(OperatorDoOnEach.java:78)
	at rx.internal.operators.OnSubscribeFromIterable$IterableProducer
          .request(OnSubscribeFromIterable.java:76)
	...]]></codeblock>

	<p>It is recommended always to implement an error handler right from the beginning since things can
                and will go wrong at some point. It can come in handy though if you just want to try
                things out quickly or for illustrative purposes.</p>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>From Asynchronous to Synchronous</title>

			<p>As long as your <codeph>Observable</codeph> works on the same thread all the time, there is no
                need for communication between threads since only one is executing. When your
                    <codeph>Observable</codeph> flow gets executed on a different thread, you need
                to take some extra care to make sure you are not missing values. This is not
                specific to <codeph>Observables</codeph>: every time you need to deal with parallel
                threads you need to think about synchronization and communication.</p>

            <p><note>Most of the snippets in this documentation only call <codeph>subscribe</codeph>. You should
                    ensure that your program doesn't terminate before <codeph>onCompleted()</codeph>
                    is called (e.g., via <codeph>toBlocking()</codeph> or a
                        <apiname>CountDownLatch</apiname>) and be aware of that when trying to
                    replicate a snippet in its Main class.</note></p>

            <p><note>You should never perform long-running blocking operations inside of an asynchronous stream
                    (e.g. inside of <codeph>map</codeph>s or <codeph>flatMap</codeph>s).</note></p>

			<p>The following code emits an increasing value every second, which is done on a different
                thread:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[public static void main(String... args) {
    Observable
        .interval(1, TimeUnit.SECONDS)
        .subscribe(new Action1<Long>() {
            @Override
            public void call(Long counter) {
                System.out.println("Got: " + counter);
            }
        });
}]]></codeblock>

    <p>It works perfectly fine; the only problem is though chances are you won't see anything
                printed out. Your main thread exits before the background thread had a chance to run
                and emit values.</p>

    <p>A common way to deal with such a situation is to add a <codeph>CountDownLatch</codeph>, which
                allows you to synchronize between different threads. One thread counts down the
                latch; the other one waits until it is counted down:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[final CountDownLatch latch = new CountDownLatch(5);
Observable
    .interval(1, TimeUnit.SECONDS)
    .subscribe(new Action1<Long>() {
        @Override
        public void call(Long counter) {
            latch.countDown();
            System.out.println("Got: " + counter);
        }
    });

latch.await();]]></codeblock>

    <p>The example prints the following lines and then exits:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[Got: 0
Got: 1
Got: 2
Got: 3
Got: 4]]></codeblock>

	<p><note>One common mistake is to use <codeph>Thread.sleep()</codeph> instead of a latch to synchronize
                    the execution between threads. This is a bad idea because it synchronizes
                    nothing and just keeps one thread alive for a specific amount of time. If the
                    actual calls take less time you are wasting time, and if it takes longer you
                    won't get the desired effect. If you do this in unit tests, be prepared for a
                    good amount of non-determinism and randomly failing tests. <p><b>Always use a
                            <codeph>CountDownLatch</codeph>!</b></p></note></p>

	<p>A technique unique to <codeph>Observables</codeph> is to convert it into a <codeph>BlockingObservable</codeph> to
                achieve the same effect. In simple terms, it converts an <codeph>Observable</codeph>
                into an <codeph>iterable</codeph> and makes it execute on the caller thread,
                blocking it until one or more values arrive. This technique is used extensively in
                the documentation to show concepts, while not having to deal with count-down latches
                all the time. It can also be used if you for some reason are not able to use
                asynchronous computations.</p>

	<p>The conversion itself doesn't do any blocking in the first place, only subsequent calls will:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// This does not block.
BlockingObservable<Long> observable = Observable
    .interval(1, TimeUnit.SECONDS)
    .toBlocking();

// This blocks and is called for every emitted item.
observable.forEach(new Action1<Long>() {
    @Override
    public void call(Long counter) {
        System.out.println("Got: " + counter);
    }
});]]></codeblock>

    <p>Because this will run forever, you are free to chain any asynchronous computations before.
				Thus, you can build an asynchronous workflow and then block at the very end. This
				resembles the same code as with the <codeph>CountDownLatch</codeph> before:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .interval(1, TimeUnit.SECONDS)
    .take(5)
    .toBlocking()
    .forEach(new Action1<Long>() {
        @Override
        public void call(Long counter) {
            System.out.println("Got: " + counter);
        }
    });]]></codeblock>

    <p>If you know that only a single value is ever returned, you can use the
					<apiname>single()</apiname> method:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[int value = Observable
    .just(1)
    .toBlocking()
    .single();]]></codeblock>

    <p>Be aware though that if more items get emitted, you get an exception:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[Exception in thread "main" java.lang.IllegalArgumentException: Sequence contains too many elements
	at rx.internal.operators.OperatorSingle$1.onNext(OperatorSingle.java:58)
	at rx.internal.operators.OnSubscribeFromIterable$IterableProducer.request(OnSubscribeFromIterable.java:76)
	at rx.Subscriber.setProducer(Subscriber.java:148)
	at rx.Subscriber.setProducer(Subscriber.java:144)
	....]]></codeblock>

	<p>The same thing happens if no value gets emitted:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[Exception in thread "main" java.util.NoSuchElementException: Sequence contains no elements
	at rx.internal.operators.OperatorSingle$1.onCompleted(OperatorSingle.java:82)
	at rx.internal.operators.OnSubscribeFromIterable$IterableProducer.request(OnSubscribeFromIterable.java:79)
	at rx.Subscriber.setProducer(Subscriber.java:148)
	at rx.Subscriber.setProducer(Subscriber.java:144)
	at rx.Subscriber.setProducer(Subscriber.java:144)
	at rx.Subscriber.setProducer(Subscriber.java:144)
	....]]></codeblock>

	<p>As an alternative, you can use <codeph>singleOrDefault()</codeph> so that a fallback value gets returned.</p>

	<p>You can use this technique with the Java SDK if you are loading a document and it does not exist:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[JsonDocument doc = bucket.get("id").toBlocking().singleOrDefault(null);
if (doc == null) {
    System.err.println("Document not found!");
} else {
    System.out.println(doc);
}]]></codeblock>

	<p>If you check out the API documentation of the <apiname>BlockingObservable</apiname>, you will
                discover many more possibilities, including iterators or grabbing the first and last
                values.</p>

	<p>One last thing that comes in handy with blocking calls: sometimes you want to collect all emitted values into a list. You can combine the blocking calls with the toList() operator to achieve something like this:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[List<Integer> list = Observable
    .just(1, 2, 3)
    .toList()
    .toBlocking()
    .single();

// Prints: [1, 2, 3]
System.out.println(list);]]></codeblock>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Creating Observables</title>

			<p>There are many ways to create <codeph>Observables</codeph>, and you've already seen <apiname>just()</apiname>
                and <apiname>interval()</apiname>. There are much more such  convenience methods
                available on the <codeph>Observable</codeph> class, but they all boil down to the
                    <apiname>create()</apiname> method. You can simulate the example from before
                with this:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable.create(new Observable.OnSubscribe<Integer>() {
    @Override
    public void call(Subscriber<? super Integer> subscriber) {
        try {
            if (!subscriber.isUnsubscribed()) {
                for (int i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
                    subscriber.onNext(i);
                }
                subscriber.onCompleted();
            }
        } catch (Exception ex) {
            subscriber.onError(ex);
        }
    }
}).subscribe(new Action1<Integer>() {
    @Override
    public void call(Integer integer) {
        System.out.println("Got: " + integer);
    }
});]]></codeblock>

		<p>Every time a Subscriber subscribes, the <apiname>call()</apiname> method is executed. You can
				then call <codeph>onNext</codeph>, <codeph>onComplete</codeph> and
					<codeph>onError</codeph> as you wish, but keep in mind that both
					<codeph>onComplete</codeph> and <codeph>onError</codeph> should only be called once,
				and afterward no subsequent <apiname>onNext</apiname> is allowed to follow so that the
				contract is met.</p>

		    <p><note>This example shows why it is crucial to call <apiname>subscribe()</apiname> on the <codeph>Observable</codeph>, because only such a call triggers the actual execution of the pipeline. This is a little different with subjects, which are covered later in this guide. Nevertheless, always call <apiname>subscribe()</apiname> on your observables.</note></p>
		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Transforming Observables</title>

			<p>Observables can transform their values in various ways. One of the most basic ones is <apiname>map()</apiname>, which converts the incoming value into a different one. You surely like division, so here is the FizzBuzz game:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .interval(10, TimeUnit.MILLISECONDS)
    .take(20)
    .map(new Func1<Long, String>() {
        @Override
        public String call(Long input) {
            if (input % 3 == 0) {
                return "Fizz";
            } else if (input % 5 == 0) {
                return "Buzz";
            }
            return Long.toString(input);
        }
    })
    .toBlocking()
    .forEach(new Action1<String>() {
        @Override
        public void call(String s) {
            System.out.println(s);
        }
    });]]></codeblock>

    <p>The map function is used to convert the input number into a string and do some checks to satisfy the FizzBuzz game. As a more practical example, consider loading a document from the Java SDK and only extracting the first name of a user before passing it on:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[bucket
    .get("id")
    .map(new Func1<JsonDocument, String>() {
        @Override
        public String call(JsonDocument document) {
            return document.content().getString("firstname");
        }
    }).subscribe();]]></codeblock>

    <p>A variation of <apiname>map()</apiname> is called <apiname>flatMap()</apiname>, which allows
				you to do those transformations with asynchronous calls. Taking the example from above,
				we want to map from String (the document ID) to a <codeph>JsonDocument</codeph> (the
				loaded document). With a normal <apiname>map()</apiname>, call you would either need to
        block on the <codeph>Observable</codeph> or at some point deal with an
					<codeph>Observable&lt;Observable&lt;JsonDocument&gt;&gt;</codeph>.</p>

    <p>Thankfully, <apiname>flatMap()</apiname> flattens the resulting values for us and return them
				into the original flow:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// Loads 3 documents in parallel
Observable
    .just("doc1", "doc2", "doc3")
    .flatMap(new Func1<String, Observable<JsonDocument>>() {
        @Override
        public Observable<JsonDocument> call(String id) {
            return bucket.get(id);
        }
    }).subscribe(new Action1<JsonDocument>() {
        @Override
        public void call(JsonDocument document) {
            System.out.println("Got: " + document);
        }
    });]]></codeblock>

 	<p>You can see that <apiname>flatMap()</apiname> returns an Observable&lt;T&gt; whereas the normal map just returns &lt;T&gt;. You will use <apiname>flatMap()</apiname> a lot when dealing with flows like this, so keep it in mind.</p>

 	<p>Another helpful transformation is <apiname>scan()</apiname>. It applies a function to each
 	    value emitted by an <codeph>Observable</codeph>, sequentially, and emits each
                successive value. We can use it to aggregate values like this:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .just(1, 2, 3, 4, 5)
    .scan(new Func2<Integer, Integer, Integer>() {
        @Override
        public Integer call(Integer sum, Integer value) {
            return sum + value;
        }
    }).subscribe(new Action1<Integer>() {
        @Override
        public void call(Integer integer) {
            System.out.println("Sum: " + integer);
        }
    });]]></codeblock>

         <p>This prints:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[Sum: 1
Sum: 3
Sum: 6
Sum: 10
Sum: 15]]></codeblock>

		    <p>Finally, <apiname>groupBy()</apiname> comes in handy, which emits one <codeph>Observable</codeph> by each group, defined by a function. The following example emits two <codeph>Observables</codeph>, one for even and one for odd values:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .just(1, 2, 3, 4, 5)
    .groupBy(new Func1<Integer, Boolean>() {
        @Override
        public Boolean call(Integer integer) {
            return integer % 2 == 0;
        }
    }).subscribe(new Action1<GroupedObservable<Boolean, Integer>>() {
        @Override
        public void call(GroupedObservable<Boolean, Integer> grouped) {
            grouped.toList().subscribe(new Action1<List<Integer>>() {
                @Override
                public void call(List<Integer> integers) {
                    System.out.println(integers + " (Even: " + grouped.getKey() + ")");
                }
            });
        }
    });]]></codeblock>

   <p>The example prints:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[[1, 3, 5] (Even: false)
[2, 4] (Even: true)]]></codeblock>

	<p>Combined with the Java SDK, this technique can be used to separate returned Documents based on their content. The following example uses a view to load all documents from the <codeph>beer-sample</codeph> bucket, groups them by type and counts the number of occurrences:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[bucket
    .query(ViewQuery.from("my_design_doc", "my_view"))
    .flatMap(ViewResult::rows)
    .flatMap(ViewRow::document)
    .groupBy(document -> document.content().getString("type"))
    .subscribe(observable ->
        observable.count().subscribe(integer ->
            System.out.println(observable.getKey() + ": " + integer)
        )
    );]]></codeblock>

		    <p>This code queries the view, extracts all rows, loads the full document for each row, groups it by the <codeph>type</codeph> property in the JSON document and then uses the <apiname>count()</apiname> operator to count the number of rows emitted by each <codeph>Observable</codeph>. This prints something like the following:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[brewery: 1412
beer: 5891]]></codeblock>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Filtering Observables</title>

			<p>In addition to transforming observables, you can also filter them. Filtering doesn't change the emitted values itself, but rather how much and at which point (and if at all) they are emitted.</p>

			<p>For example, you can filter based on some criteria:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// This will only let 3 and 4 pass.
Observable
    .just(1, 2, 3, 4)
    .filter(new Func1<Integer, Boolean>() {
        @Override
        public Boolean call(Integer integer) {
            return integer > 2;
        }
    }).subscribe();]]></codeblock>

			<p>Or take only the first N values emitted and then unsubscribe:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// Only 1 and 2 will pass.
Observable
    .just(1, 2, 3, 4)
    .take(2)
    .subscribe();]]></codeblock>

			<p>Or use only the first or last value emitted:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// Only 1 will pass
Observable
    .just(1, 2, 3, 4)
    .first()
    .subscribe();]]></codeblock>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// Only 4 will pass
Observable
    .just(1, 2, 3, 4)
    .last()
    .subscribe();]]></codeblock>

			<p>Finally, you can use distinct() to suppress duplicate values:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// 1, 2, 3, 4 will be emitted
Observable
    .just(1, 2, 1, 3, 4, 2)
    .distinct()
    .subscribe();]]></codeblock>

    <p><note><apiname>distinct()</apiname> also allows you to pass in a function that returns the key to select by. You can use this, for example, to separate out duplicate <codeph>JsonDocument</codeph> objects.</note></p>
		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Combining Observables</title>

		    <p>Multiple <codeph>Observables</codeph> can also be merged to form a combined one. Depending on how you want those to be merged, there are different operators available. Two of the most used ones are <apiname>merge()</apiname> and <apiname>zip()</apiname> which are covered here.</p>

			<p><apiname>Merge</apiname> only merges all emitted values by the source
			    <codeph>Observables</codeph> in the order they arrive:</p>
<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .merge(evens, odds)
    .subscribe(new Action1<Integer>() {
        @Override
        public void call(Integer integer) {
            System.out.println(integer);
        }
    });]]></codeblock>

    	<p>The example prints something similar to the following:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[2
4
6
8
10
1
3
5
7
9]]></codeblock>

		<p>With the zip operator, you can combine two streams in the strictly same order, defined by a function:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable<Integer> evens = Observable.just(2, 4, 6, 8, 10);
Observable<Integer> odds = Observable.just(1, 3, 5, 7, 9);

Observable
    .zip(evens, odds, (v1, v2) -> v1 + " + " + v2 + " is: " + (v1 + v2))
    .subscribe(System.out::println);]]></codeblock>

    	<p>This zips the pairs together in order and prints:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[2 + 1 is: 3
4 + 3 is: 7
6 + 5 is: 11
8 + 7 is: 15
10 + 9 is: 19]]></codeblock>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Error Handling</title>

		    <p>Error handling is a vital component of every real world application and needs to be considered from the start. RxJava provides sophisticated mechanisms to deal with errors that happen inevitably in your <codeph>Observable</codeph> flows.</p>

			<p>In general, you want to react in the following ways:</p>

			<ul>
				<li>Return a default value instead.</li>
			    <li>Flip over to a backup <codeph>Observable</codeph>.</li>
			    <li>Retry the <codeph>Observable</codeph> (immediately or with backoff).</li>
			</ul>

			<p>Returning a default value is a good idea if you cannot afford to retry or you just don't care
                (maybe because the flow is not crucial to your data flow). The following code throws
                an exception at the first emitted item, but falls back to a default value:</p>

			<p>Note that you can pass in a function that also takes the exception, so you can return
                different values for different exception types or use it for logging purposes.</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// Prints:
// Default
// Oops: I don't like: Apples
Observable
    .just("Apples", "Bananas")
    .doOnNext(s -> {
        throw new RuntimeException("I don't like: " + s);
    })
    .onErrorReturn(throwable -> {
        System.err.println("Oops: " + throwable.getMessage());
        return "Default";
    }).subscribe(System.out::println);]]></codeblock>

		    <p>You can also flip to a backup <codeph>Observable</codeph> that will be called if the first one fails. The
                Java SDK has a<apiname> getFromReplica()</apiname> command that  allows you to read
                stale data from its replicas and treat availability for consistency on reads. You
                can use this approach to fall back:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[bucket
    .get("id")
    .onErrorResumeNext(bucket.getFromReplica("id", ReplicaMode.ALL))
    .subscribe();]]></codeblock>

		    <p>Normally you want to have more control on which <codeph>Observable</codeph> should be run next depending on
				the type of error. The following example will only go to the replica if a
					<codeph>TimeoutException</codeph> happened (if not the error is passed down):</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[bucket
    .get("id")
    .timeout(500, TimeUnit.MILLISECONDS)
    .onErrorResumeNext(new Func1<Throwable, Observable<? extends JsonDocument>>() {
        @Override
        public Observable<? extends JsonDocument> call(Throwable throwable) {
            if (throwable instanceof TimeoutException) {
                return bucket.getFromReplica("id", ReplicaMode.ALL);
            }
            return Observable.error(throwable);
        }
    });]]></codeblock>

		    <p>Finally, it is possible to retry the <codeph>Observable</codeph> by resubscribing. This can be done as quickly as possible, or with a backoff interval, which is preferred when external resources are involved.</p>

    	<p>The following program desperately tries to read the numbers from 1 to 10, but a (not so hidden) flaw makes it randomly throw an exception. If that happens, the code retries. Since lots of values might be already emitted, we can use <apiname>distinct()</apiname> to filter those out.</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .just(1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10)
    .doOnNext(integer -> {
        if (new Random().nextInt(10) + 1 == 5) {
            throw new RuntimeException("Boo!");
        }
    })
    .retry()
    .distinct()
    .subscribe(System.out::println);]]></codeblock>

    	<p><note>If you only want to retry for a max amount, replace the <apiname>retry()</apiname> with a <apiname>retry(count)</apiname> call.</note></p>

    	<p>If you want to retry with backoff, you can use a technique like this:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .range(1, 10)
    .doOnNext(integer -> {
        if (new Random().nextInt(10) + 1 == 5) {
            throw new RuntimeException("Boo!");
        }
    })
    .retryWhen(attempts ->
        attempts.zipWith(Observable.range(1, 3), (n, i) -> i)
        .flatMap(i -> {
            System.out.println("delay retry by " + i + " second(s)");
            return Observable.timer(i, TimeUnit.SECONDS);
        }))
    .distinct()
    .subscribe(System.out::println);]]></codeblock>

    <p>The attempts get passed into the <apiname>retryWhen()</apiname> method and zipped with the number of seconds to wait. The timer method is used to complete once its timer is done. If you run this code a few times to generate an exception (or more), you will see something similar to this:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[1
2
3
4
delay retry by 1 second(s)
delay retry by 2 second(s)
5
6
7
8
9
10]]></codeblock>

<p>With the Java SDK the advanced <codeph>retryWhen</codeph> is easier to write using the
                    <codeph>RetryBuilder</codeph> helper class. These can be used to specify a
                filter on which kind of <codeph>Exception</codeph> to retry, for how many attempts,
                with any <codeph>Delay</codeph>.</p>
<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[
Observable
    .range(1, 10)
    .doOnNext(integer -> {
         if (new Random().nextInt(10) + 1 == 5) {
             throw new RuntimeException("Boo!");
         }
    })
    .retryWhen(
         RetryBuilder
             .anyOf(RuntimeException.class)
             .delay(Delay.exponential(TimeUnit.MILLISECONDS, 100))
             .max(5)
             .build())
    .distinct()
    .subscribe(System.out::println);
]]></codeblock>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Schedulers and Threads</title>

			<p>Schedulers in RxJava are used to manage and control concurrency. Some operators implicitly use
				one or allow you to pass in a custom one.</p>

			<p>RxJava ships with a bunch of pre-configured Schedulers by default, which are all accessible
                through the Schedulers class:</p>

			<ul>
				<li><apiname>Schedulers.computation()</apiname>: Event-loop style scheduler for purely computational work.</li>
		        <li><apiname>Schedulers.immediate()</apiname>: Executes the work immediately on the current thread.</li>
		        <li><apiname>Schedulers.io()</apiname>: Executes work on an Executor-backed pool that
                    grows as needed.</li>
		        <li><apiname>Schedulers.newThread()</apiname>: Creates a new thread for each unit of work.</li>
		        <li><apiname>Schedulers.trampoline()</apiname>: Queues the work on the current thread and gets executed after the current work completes.</li>
		        <li><apiname>Schedulers.test()</apiname>: Test the <codeph>scheduler</codeph> used for
                    testing and debugging, which allows manual advancing of the clock.</li>
			</ul>

			<p>As a rule of thumb, the computation <codeph>scheduler</codeph> should always be used for
                in-memory processing, while the I/O scheduler should only be used for blocking-style
                I/O operations (so do not use it together with the Java SDK because it is
                asynchronous anyway).</p>

			<p>You can instruct an <codeph>observable</codeph> to be executed on such a
                    <codeph>scheduler</codeph> in the following ways:</p>

			<ul>
				<li>Implicitly by using an operator that makes use of one</li>
				<li>Explicitly by passing the Scheduler to such an operator</li>
				<li>By using <apiname>subscribeOn(Scheduler)</apiname></li>
				<li>By using <apiname>observeOn(Scheduler)</apiname></li>
			</ul>

			<p>Operators like <codeph>buffer</codeph>, <codeph>replay</codeph>, <codeph>skip</codeph>,
                    <codeph>delay</codeph>, <codeph>parallel</codeph> and so on use a
                    <codeph>scheduler</codeph> by default if not instructed otherwise. A list of
                default <codeph>schedulers</codeph> can be found <xref
                    href="https://github.com/ReactiveX/RxJava/wiki/Scheduler#default-schedulers-for-rxjava-observable-operators"
                    format="html" scope="external">here</xref>.</p>

			<p>As a rule of thumb, all of those operators allow you to pass in a custom
                    <codeph>scheduler</codeph> if needed, but most of the time sticking with the
                defaults is a good idea.</p>

			<p><note>The Java SDK uses an <term>internal scheduler</term> similar to the <term>computation
                        scheduler</term> to proper isolate the inner mechanisms from user-land. It
                    is possible to change that <codeph>scheduler</codeph> through the environment,
                    but it is not recommended.</note></p>

			<p>If you want the whole subscribe chain to be executed on a specific <codeph>scheduler</codeph>,
                you use the <apiname>subscribeOn()</apiname> operator. Without a scheduler set, the
                following code executes on the main thread:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .range(1, 5)
    .map(integer -> {
        System.out.println("Map: (" + Thread.currentThread().getName() + ")");
        return integer + 2;
    })
    .subscribe(integer ->
        System.out.println("Got: " + integer + " (" + Thread.currentThread().getName() + ")")
    );]]></codeblock>

            <p>The example prints:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[Map: (main)
Got: 3 (main)
Map: (main)
Got: 4 (main)
Map: (main)
Got: 5 (main)
Map: (main)
Got: 6 (main)
Map: (main)
Got: 7 (main)]]></codeblock>

		<p>This example shows the <apiname>subscribeOn()</apiname> method added to the flow (it doesn't
				matter where you add it):</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .range(1, 5)
    .map(integer -> {
        System.out.println("Map: (" + Thread.currentThread().getName() + ")");
        return integer + 2;
    })
    .subscribeOn(Schedulers.computation())
    .subscribe(integer ->
            System.out.println("Got: " + integer + " (" + Thread.currentThread().getName() + ")")
    );]]></codeblock>

        <p>In the output of the example that uses <apiname>subscribeOn()</apiname>, you can see it
				is executed on the same thread, but on the computation thread pool:</p>

<codeblock ><![CDATA[Map: (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Got: 3 (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Map: (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Got: 4 (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Map: (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Got: 5 (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Map: (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Got: 6 (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Map: (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Got: 7 (RxComputationThreadPool-6)]]></codeblock>

		<p>If you need tighter control regarding which parts are executed on what pool, use
					<apiname>observeOn()</apiname>. Here, the order matters:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .range(1, 5)
    .map(integer -> {
        System.out.println("Map: (" + Thread.currentThread().getName() + ")");
        return integer + 2;
    })
    .observeOn(Schedulers.computation())
    .subscribe(integer ->
            System.out.println("Got: " + integer + " (" + Thread.currentThread().getName() + ")")
    );]]></codeblock>

       <p>Everything before the <apiname>observeOn()</apiname> call is executed in
					<codeph>main</codeph>, everything below in the scheduler:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[Map: (main)
Map: (main)
Map: (main)
Got: 3 (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Got: 4 (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Got: 5 (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Map: (main)
Map: (main)
Got: 6 (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Got: 7 (RxComputationThreadPool-6)]]></codeblock>

		<p>There is also a way to use <codeph>schedulers</codeph> directly to schedule operations. For
                more information about <codeph>schedulers</codeph>, refer to the RxJava
                documentation about <xref
                    href="https://github.com/ReactiveX/RxJava/wiki/Scheduler#default-schedulers-for-rxjava-observable-operators"
                    format="html" scope="external">schedulers</xref>. </p>
		</section>

    <section id="topic_drb_nrp_f5">
  <title>Writing Resilient Reactive Applications</title>
    <note type="note">Many concepts can be applied for both synchronous and asynchronous access.
      When necessary, both patterns are discussed separately. The focus is on database interaction,
      but if you are using RxJava as part of your stack, you can and should apply most of the
      principles there as well.</note>
  </section>

  <section><title>Error Recovery</title>
  <p>This section discusses different strategies to mitigate errors that might come up during
        operations. Some of
        them are shown to make a point, but the techniques apply to all different types of errors
        and can be applied as you see fit.</p>

<sectiondiv>
  <p><b>Logging</b></p>

    <p>It is always important to log errors, but even more so in the case of reactive applications.
          Because of the event driven nature, stack traces get harder to look at, and caller context
          is sometimes lost.</p> <p>RxJava provides operators for "side effects" (additional behavior that doesn't change the items
          flowing through the <codeph>Observable</codeph> stream), which should be used to log
          errors. Of course, you can also put logging into the error handlers, but readability is
          increased if the logging is put explicitly as a side effect.</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable .error(new Exception("I'm failing")) .doOnError(new \
        Action1&lt;Throwable&gt;() { @Override public void call(Throwable \
        throwable) { // I'm an explicit side effect // use a proper logger of \
        your choice here LOGGER.warn("Error while doing XYZ", throwable); } }) .subscribe(); ]]></codeblock><p>It is also recommended to configure your logger to include absolute timestamps. While this is
          always a good idea, if combined with good logging throughout the application it makes it
          easier to debug error cases and see later what was going on inside your reactive
          application. </p><p>You can also utilize the various other side-effect operators for general logging
            (<apiname>doOnNext</apiname>, <apiname>doOnCompleted</apiname>). If you don't want to
          have different side effects for the same logging operation, you can use
            <apiname>doOnEach</apiname>. It will be called for both errors and next events with a
            <apiname>Notification</apiname> object that denotes what kind of event is being
          processed.</p>
</sectiondiv>
 <sectiondiv>
<p><b>Failing</b></p>
 <p>Failing is the easiest way to handle errors - because you don't. While most of the time you want
          more sophisticated error handling strategies (as discussed later), sometimes you just need
          to fail. It makes no sense for some errors to be retried, either because they are not
          transient or because you already tried everything to make it work and it still keeps
          failing. </p><p>In error-resilient architectures, you want to do everything to keep the error contained. However,
          if the containment is not able to handle the error it needs to propagate it to a parent
          component that (possibly) can.</p><p>In the asynchronous case, errors are events like every other for your subscribers. Once an error
                    happens, your <codeph>Subscriber</codeph> is notified in the method
                        <apiname>onError(Throwable)</apiname>, and you can handle it the way you
                    want to. Note that by <codeph>Observable</codeph> contract, after the
                        <apiname>onError</apiname> event, no more <apiname>onNext</apiname> events
                    will happen.</p>

      <codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
        .error(new Exception("I'm failing"))
        .subscribe(new Subscriber&lt;Object&gt;() {
          @Override
          public void onCompleted() {
          }

          @Override
          public void onError(Throwable e) {
          System.err.println("Got Error: " + e);
          }

          @Override
          public void onNext(Object o) {
          }
          });]]></codeblock>
      <p>It is always a good idea to implement error handling.</p>
      <p>In the synchronous case, every error is converted into an Exception and thrown so that you
          can use regular <apiname>try</apiname>/<apiname>catch</apiname> semantics.</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[try {
        Object data = Observable
        .error(new Exception("I'm failing"))
        .toBlocking()
        .single();
        } catch(Exception ex) {
        System.err.println("Got Exception: " + ex);
        }
      ]]></codeblock>
      <p>If you do not catch the Exception, it will bubble up:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-java"> Exception in thread "main" java.lang.RuntimeException: java.lang.Exception: I'm failing
      at rx.observables.BlockingObservable.blockForSingle(BlockingObservable.java:482)
      at rx.observables.BlockingObservable.single(BlockingObservable.java:349)
      </codeblock>
 </sectiondiv>
  <sectiondiv>
    <p><b>Retry</b></p>
    <p>Retrying operations is a common technique to ride over transient errors. It should not be
          used for non-transient errors because it will only put a load onto the system without the
          chance to resolve the error.</p>
    <p>In practice, the following retry strategies can be applied when a transient error is discovered:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Retry immediately.</li>
      <li>Retry with a fixed delay.</li>
      <li>Retry with a linearly increasing delay.</li>
      <li>Retry with an exponentially increasing delay.</li>
      <li>Retry with a random delay.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>Unless you have a very good reason not to, <i>always</i> apply a maximum number of attempts
          and then escalate the error. Systems stuck in infinite retry loops can cause issues that
          are very hard to debug. It's better to fail and propagate at some point.</p>
    <p>Also, we recommend that you use asynchronous retry even if you are blocking at the very end.
          Retrying in the asynchronous <codeph>Observables</codeph> is way more resource efficient
          and also the only sane way to handle multiple operation steps (and bulk operations) under
          a single timeout.</p>
    <p>Starting with 2.1.0 the Java SDK comes with a <apiname>RetryBuilder</apiname>, a utility
          class to describe retries with a fluent API (see ). In earlier versions use the code
          provided in the documentation.</p>

  <dl>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>Retry without delay</dt>
      <dd>Let's get one thing straight right away: immediately retrying is almost never a good idea.
              Instead of resolving the error more quickly, it will put more pressure onto the
              retried system, and there is a good chance it will make resolving errors harder.
                <p>One good reason to do so is if you have a specific operation with a very short
                timeout that you want to keep retrying for a small, fixed amount of times and if it
                still does not work, fail fast. </p><p>If you have the feeling you need to retry
                very quickly, you can also apply a very slight increasing delay to, at least,
                release some pressure from the target system. </p><p>RxJava provides the
                  <apiname>retry</apiname> operator to resubscribe to the source
                  <codeph>Observable</codeph> immediately once it fails (an error event happens).
                Three flavors are available: </p><ul>
                <li><apiname>retry()</apiname>: Instantly retry as long as the source
                    <codeph>Observable</codeph> emits an error. It is strongly recommend not to use
                  this operator.</li>
                <li><apiname>retry(long count)</apiname>: Instantly retry as long as the source
                    <codeph>Observable</codeph> emits an error or the max count is reached. If the
                  count is reached, the Observable will not be resubscribed, but the error is
                  propagated down the stream. This operator is recommended for use.</li>
                <li><apiname>retry(Func2&lt;Integer, Throwable, Boolean&gt; predicate)</apiname>:
                  Instantly retry as long as the predicate returns true. Arguments to the predicate
                  are the number of tries, as well as the exception type. </li>
              </ul><p>Since the <codeph>predicate</codeph> method provides the most flexibility, it
                is recommended to use it. If you only want to handle a specific exception and retry
                a maximum of <codeph>MAX_TRIES</codeph> times, you can do it like this:
                </p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">   Observable .error(new CASMismatchException()) .retry(new \
          Func2&lt;Integer, Throwable, Boolean&gt;() { @Override public Boolean \
          call(Integer tries, Throwable throwable) { return (throwable \
          instanceof CASMismatchException) &amp;&amp; tries &lt;MAX_TRIES; } }) .subscribe();         </codeblock><p>Try
                replacing <codeph>CASMismatchException</codeph> with something else and you will see
                that it does not try to retry, but rather propagates the error downstream. You can
                use this technique to handle specific errors differently by adding more retry
                operators in the pipeline. </p><p>Using the <codeph>retry</codeph> with
                  <codeph>predicate</codeph> also allows you to log the number of retries for a
                specific error. If you use the <apiname>doOnError</apiname> for logging, it's harder
                to log the number of retries.</p><p>The synchronous equivalent to the latest code
                looks like
              this:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">   int tries = 0; while(true) { tries++; try { pretendWorkThatMaybeThrows(); // \
          does some work and maybe throws break; } catch(Throwable throwable) { if (!(throwable \
          instanceof CASMismatchException) || tries >= MAX_TRIES) { throw throwable; // \
          rethrow exceptions } } }</codeblock>
            </dd>
    </dlentry>
  </dl>
        <dl id="retrydelay">
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Retry with Delay</dt>
            <dd>When applying a <term>Retry with delay</term>, the main question you need to ask
                            yourself is: how often and how long is it feasible to retry before
                            giving up (and escalate the error). Using this retry option depends on
                            the type of operation, use case, and SLA that the application requires,
                            but the techniques are the same. <p>RxJava provides the
                                    <apiname>retryWhen</apiname> operator, which allows you more
                                flexibility with the actions performed as well as when the
                                re-subscription is happening. This section covers the different
                                delay approaches based on this operator.</p><p>Here is the contract
                                for <apiname>retryWhen</apiname> that you should always keep in
                                mind: </p><ul>
                                <li>It is called when an error on the source
                                        <codeph>Observable</codeph> happens.</li>
                                <li>The function provided will be called with an
                                        <codeph>Observable</codeph> containing this error.</li>
                                <li>If you make this <codeph>Observable</codeph> error, it is
                                    propagated downstream (without retrying).</li>
                                <li>If you make this <codeph>Observable</codeph> complete, it is
                                    propagated downstream (without retrying).</li>
                                <li>If you make this <codeph>Observable</codeph> call
                                        <apiname>onNext</apiname>, a retry will happen. </li>
                            </ul><p>Since the version 2.1.0 the Java SDK comes with the
                                    <apiname>RetryBuilder</apiname>, a helper to describe when and
                                how to retry: only on certain classes of exceptions, max 5 attempts,
                                the exponential delay between attempts, and so on. The result of
                                this builder (<apiname>calling build()</apiname>) can be used with
                                RxJava's <apiname>retryWhen</apiname> operator directly:
                                </p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">Observable.error(new IllegalStateException())
          .retryWhen(
          RetryBuilder.anyOf(IllegalStateException.class).max(6).delay(Delay.linear(TimeUnit.SECONDS)).build()
          ); </codeblock><p>This
                                code will ultimately fail after 6 additional attempts. It would fail
                                fast if the source returns an error with something other than
                                    an<apiname> IllegalStateException</apiname> during retries. Each
                                attempt will be made with an increasing delay, which grows linearly
                                (1 second, then 2, 3, 4). If an exception occurs that is not managed
                                by the handler, it is propagated as is, allowing you to chain such
                                handlers. </p><p>If the maximum number of attempts is reached, the
                                last exception that occurred is propagated, wrapped in a
                                    <apiname>CannotRetryException</apiname>. This helper allows to
                                write retry semantics more easily, but in this section it is
                                explained how to write them from scratch. </p><p>The easiest
                                approach is the <term>fixed delay</term>. The source
                                    <codeph>Observable</codeph> will be resubscribed after a
                                specified amount of time and for a fixed maximum number of times.
                                </p><p>Because the nested logic is a bit harder to understand in the
                                first place, let's talk through it step by step and then put it
                                together. </p><p>Our <apiname>retryWhen</apiname> function is called
                                every time an error happens on the source
                                    <codeph>Observable</codeph>. If we wanted to try forever every
                                second, it could look like this: </p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">    .retryWhen(new Func1&lt;Observable&lt;? extends Throwable&gt;, \
          Observable&lt;?&gt;&gt;() { @Override public Observable&lt;?&gt; call(Observable&lt;? \
            extends Throwable&gt; errorNotification) { return \
            errorNotification.flatMap(new Func1&lt;Throwable, Observable&lt;?&gt;&gt;() { \
          @Override public Observable&lt;?&gt; call(Throwable throwable) { return \
            Observable.timer(1, TimeUnit.SECONDS); } }); } })
          </codeblock>
                            <p>We <apiname>flatMap</apiname> our notification
                                    <codeph>Observable</codeph> and utilize the
                                    <apiname>Observable#timer</apiname> to defer emitting a new
                                event for a second. Since we need to stop at some point, after a
                                given number of tries, we can utilize the
                                    <apiname>Observable#zipWith</apiname> operator to zip our error
                                stream together with a range where we specify the number of tries we
                                want to allow. Zipping has the nice side-effect that once one of the
                                    <codeph>Observable</codeph> is completed, the resulting
                                    <codeph>Observable</codeph> will also be complete, which
                                triggers our Rule 4 from above.</p><p>The modified version looks
                                like this:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">   .retryWhen(new Func1&lt;Observable&lt;? extends Throwable&gt;, Observable&lt;?&gt;&gt;() {
                @Override
                public Observable&lt;?&gt; call(Observable&lt;? extends Throwable&gt; errorNotification) {
        return errorNotification
            .zipWith(Observable.range(1, 4), new Func2&lt;Throwable, Integer, Integer&gt;() {
                @Override
                public Integer call(Throwable throwable, Integer attempts) {
                    return attempts;
                }
            })
            .flatMap(new Func1&lt;Integer, Observable&lt;?&gt;&gt;() {
                @Override
                public Observable&lt;?&gt; call(Integer attempts) {
                    return Observable.timer(1, TimeUnit.SECONDS);
                }
            });
    }
}) </codeblock>
                            <p>Technically, we don't need the zip function here because we ignore it
                                later on, but it is required for the <codeph>zipWith</codeph>
                                operator to work. We use the <apiname>Observable#range</apiname>
                                operator to create an <codeph>Observable</codeph> that emits three
                                events and then completes, so we will never end up with more
                                retries.</p><p>There is one more enhancement needed: the code as it
                                stands there will swallow the originating exception when moving on,
                                which is not good because it should be propagated if it can't be
                                handled in this code block. </p><p>The following code is modified so
                                that the function of <codeph>zipWith</codeph> returns not only the
                                attempted count but also the throwable, so that Couchbase Server has
                                access to it in the <apiname>flatMap</apiname> method. For this, the
                                Java client has a generic <apiname>Tuple</apiname> the server can
                                utilize. In the <apiname>flatMap</apiname>, Couchbase Server checks
                                for the number of attempts, and if it is over the threshold, it
                                re-throws the exception. Keep in mind that you need to change
                                    <apiname>Observable#range</apiname> call to
                                    <codeph>MAX_ATTEMPTS+1</codeph>, to give your code a chance to
                                be called again one final time.</p>
                            <codeblock outputclass="language-java">   .retryWhen(new Func1&lt;Observable&lt;? extends Throwable>, \
          Observable&lt;?&gt;&gt;() { @Override public Observable&lt;?&gt; call(Observable&lt;? extends Throwable&gt; \
          errorNotification) { return errorNotification .zipWith(Observable.range(1, 5), \
          new Func2&lt;Throwable, Integer, Tuple2&lt;Throwable, Integer&gt;&gt;() { @Override \
          public Tuple2&lt;Throwable, Integer> call(Throwable throwable, Integer attempts) { \
          return Tuple.create(throwable, attempts); } }) .flatMap(new Func1&lt;Tuple2&lt;Throwable, \
          Integer&gt;, Observable&lt;?&gt;&gt;() { @Override public Observable&lt;?&gt; \
          call(Tuple2&lt;Throwable, Integer&gt; attempt) { if (attempt.value2() == 3) \
          { return Observable.error(attempt.value1()); } return Observable.timer(1, TimeUnit.SECONDS); } }); } })</codeblock><p>If
                                you want to enhance it even further, you can add one more
                                    <apiname>if()</apiname>clause in the <apiname>flatMap</apiname>
                                to see if the throwable that is passed down is actually the one we
                                want to retry.</p><p>Functionality like this is a great candidate to
                                be generic and encapsulated, so that's what we did with
                                    <apiname>RetryBuilder</apiname>. If you are already using Java
                                8, the code becomes more condensed as
                                well:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">  .retryWhen(notification -> notification .zipWith(Observable.range(1, 5), \
                Tuple::create) .flatMap(att -> att.value2() == 3 ? Observable.error(att.value1()) : \
                Observable.timer(1, TimeUnit.SECONDS) ) ) </codeblock><p>Here
                                are the variations for linear, exponential and random delays:
                                    </p><p><b>Linear:</b></p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">   // Utilizes the number of attempts for the number of seconds to wait .\
                retryWhen(notification -> notification .zipWith(Observable.range(1, 5), \
                Tuple::create) .flatMap(att -> att.value2() == 3 ? Observable.error(att.value1()) : \
                Observable.timer(att.value2(), TimeUnit.SECONDS) ) )</codeblock><p><b>Exponential:</b></p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">   // Uses the timer with 2^attempts to generate exponential delays \
                .retryWhen(notification -> notification .zipWith(Observable.range(1, 5), \
                Tuple::create) .flatMap(att -> att.value2() == 3 ? Observable.error(att.value1()) : \
                Observable.timer(1 &lt;&lt; att.value2(), TimeUnit.SECONDS) ) )</codeblock><p><b>Random:</b></p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">   // Random between 0 and 5 seconds to retry per attempt .retryWhen(notification -> \
                notification .zipWith(Observable.range(1, 5), Tuple::create) .flatMap(att -> \
                att.value2() == 3 ? Observable.error(att.value1()) : \
                Observable.timer(new Random().nextInt(5), TimeUnit.SECONDS) ) )</codeblock><p>With
                                the synchronous code, there are not many options other than using
                                    <apiname>Thread.sleep()</apiname> to keep the current thread
                                waiting until the loop is allowed to proceed:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">   // Linear Backoff
                int tries = 0;
                while(true) {
                tries++;
                try {
                pretendWorkThatMaybeThrows(); // does some work and maybe throws
                break;
                } catch(Throwable throwable) {
                if (!(throwable instanceof CASMismatchException) || tries >= MAX_TRIES) {
                throw throwable; // rethrow exceptions
                }
                }

                Thread.sleep(TimeUnit.SECONDS.toMillis(tries));
                }             </codeblock>
                            <p>You can then use the same approaches as with the asynchronous ones on
                                the <apiname>Thread.sleep()</apiname> time to accommodate for a
                                static, linear, exponential or random delay. </p></dd>
    </dlentry>
  </dl>

  </sectiondiv>
  <sectiondiv><p><b>Fallback</b></p><p>Instead of (or in addition to) retrying, another valid option is falling back to either a
          different <codeph>Observable</codeph> or a default value. </p><p>RxJava
          provides you with different operators, prefixed with <apiname>onError*()</apiname>:</p><ul>
          <li><apiname>onErrorReturn(Func1&lt;Throwable, T&gt;)</apiname>: It is called when the
            source <codeph>Observable</codeph> errors and allows to return custom data instead.</li>
          <li><apiname>onErrorResumeNext(Observable&lt;?&gt;)</apiname>: It is called when the
            source <codeph>Observable</codeph> errors and allows to resume transparently with a
            different Observable.</li>
          <li><apiname>onErrorResumeNext(Func1&lt;Throwable, Observable&lt;?&gt;)</apiname>: It is
            called when the source <codeph>Observable</codeph> errors and allows to transparently
            resume with an <codeph>Observable</codeph> (based on a specific
              <codeph>Throwable</codeph>).</li>
        </ul><p>You should use the <apiname>onErrorReturn</apiname> if you want to fallback to
          static data quickly. For
          example:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">    Observable
      .&lt;String&gt;error(new Exception("I failed"))
        .onErrorReturn(new Func1&lt;Throwable, String&gt;() {
          @Override
          public String call(Throwable throwable) {
          // You could return data based on the throwable as well
          return "Default";
          }
          })
          .subscribe();</codeblock><p>If you only want to return default values based on a specific exception or even call another
            <codeph>Observable</codeph> as fallback, <apiname>onErrorResumeNext</apiname> is what
          you're looking for. </p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-java">Observable
      .&lt;String&gt;error(new TimeoutException("I failed"))
        .onErrorResumeNext(new Func1&lt;Throwable, Observable&lt;? extends String&gt;&gt;() {
          @Override
          public Observable&lt;? extends String&gt; call(Throwable throwable) {
            if (throwable instanceof TimeoutException) {
                return Observable.just("Default");
            }
            // Forward anything other than the TimeoutException
            return Observable.error(throwable);
        }
    })
    .subscribe();</codeblock><p>If you just want to fallback onto another <codeph>Observable</codeph> that you have in scope
          without caring about the Exception, you can use the other
            <apiname>onErrorResumeNext()</apiname> overload. For example, this loads data from all
          replicas if the <apiname>get()</apiname> call did not succeed with the Java SDK:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">   bucket
      .async()
      .get("id")
      .onErrorResumeNext(bucket.async().getFromReplica("id", ReplicaMode.ALL))
      .subscribe();   </codeblock><p>Synchronous
          fallbacks can be implemented by conditionally setting the default in the
            <apiname>catch</apiname>
          clause:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">   String value;
      try {
      value = pretendWorkThatMaybeThrows();
      } catch(Exception ex) {
      value = "Default";
      }   </codeblock><p>Here is the gotcha: this synchronous example only works great if the fallback is static. If you
          need to fallback into another database call, for example, you quickly get into nested
          error handling and timeouts are a pain to handle (since they start to accumulate for every
          synchronous call). It is recommended to use asynchronous fallbacks and then block at the
          very end through <apiname>toBlocking().single()</apiname> or equivalents.</p></sectiondiv>


  <sectiondiv><p><b>Defaults</b></p><p>Another possibility that requires intervention on the application side are
            <codeph>Observables</codeph> that do not emit a single value. This can happen because
          operators filtered the <codeph>Observable</codeph> so that nothing is left, or they did
          not produce any values in the first place. One common case in the Java SDK is
            <apiname>get()</apiname>. If the Document is not found, the <codeph>Observable</codeph>
          will complete without emitting anything.</p><p>RxJava provides helper operators that all end with <apiname>*OrDefault()</apiname> and allow you
          to return default values if no item is emitted when the <codeph>Observable</codeph>
          completes.</p><p>In most cases, you want to use <apiname>singleOrDefault()</apiname> and return a default value
          when not a single item is emitted by the source <codeph>Observable</codeph>:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-java">Observable
      .&lt;String&gt;empty()
        .singleOrDefault("Default")
        .subscribe(); </codeblock>

          <p>If you are dealing with potentially more than one item emitted in your
            <codeph>Observable</codeph> and you only want to emit either the first or the last
          value, there are also operators that allow you to emit a default if it's unexpectedly
          empty. See <apiname>firstOrDefault()</apiname> as well as
            <apiname>lastOrDefault()</apiname> for more details.</p><p>Lastly, RxJava offers the method <apiname>defaultIfEmtpy</apiname>, which allows you to return a
          value if the source doesn't emit anything. In recent versions, the method
            <apiname>switchIfEmpty</apiname> allows you to switch to a different
            <codeph>Observable</codeph> in that same case.</p></sectiondiv>
  <sectiondiv>
    <p><b>Error Handling in Bulk Scenarios</b></p>

    <p>Bulk operations are used to handle more data in one batch and, therefore, benefit from better
          resource utilization. However,  error handling becomes more complicated. There are three
          high-level cases to consider:</p>

    <ul>
      <li><b>Best Effort</b>: Keep going and just use the results that succeeded when errors
            happen.</li>
      <li><b>Full Retry</b>: Retry the complete Observable when errors happen.</li>
      <li><b>Incremental Retry</b>: Only retry specific events of the Observable.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>Before we "dig" into the specific approaches, let's revisit the contract of Observables:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-java">onNext* (onError | onComplete)</codeblock>
    <p>Zero or more events are followed by either an error event or a complete event.
      This provides an important clue right away: once our <codeph>Observable</codeph> fails, no more events can be passed through.
      Therefore,
      you need to make sure that errors are handled at the smallest scope possible, only letting it proceed
      if you cannot handle it right away.</p>

  <dl>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>Best Effort Bulk Handling</dt>
      <dd>Sometimes it is more important to get data in a timeframe, or maybe with a short timeout,
                            then getting all data. In general, you want to keep a timeout that lets
                            you fetch all the data, but depending on the use case you are fine with
                            only getting a subset of the data returned. <p>To ignore errors and turn
                                them into "noops", you can utilize
                                    <apiname>onErrorResumeNext()</apiname>:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">    Observable
          .create(new Observable.OnSubscribe&lt;String&gt;() {
            @Override
            public void call(Subscriber&lt;? super String&gt; subscriber) {
            subscriber.onNext("A");
            subscriber.onNext("B");
            subscriber.onError(new IllegalStateException("Woops"));
            subscriber.onNext("C");
        }
    })
    .onErrorResumeNext(Observable.&lt;String&gt;empty())
    .toBlocking()
    .forEach(new Action1&lt;String&gt;() {
        @Override
        public void call(String s) {
            System.out.println("Got: " + s);
        }
    });</codeblock>
                            <p>This will not raise any exception to your calling thread, but it will
                                never process "C" because, based on the <codeph>Observable</codeph>
                                contract, once <apiname>onError</apiname> is called no more events
                                are allowed to be generated.</p><p>To keep going in case an event
                                fails, you need to turn each event into a single
                                    <codeph>Observable</codeph> and then merge it back together to
                                either defer the error handling (through
                                    <apiname>Observable#mergeDelayError</apiname>) or use
                                    <apiname>flatMap</apiname> and make sure to contain the errors
                                before flattening.</p><p>This code provides some fake data with
                                which you can work. It will emit four <codeph>Observables</codeph>
                                where one of them will
                                fail:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">    Observable&lt;Observable&lt;String&gt;&gt; dataObservables = Observable
          .just("a", "b", "c", "d")
          .map(new Func1&lt;String, Observable&lt;String&gt;&gt;() {
            @Override
            public Observable&lt;String&gt; call(String s) {
              if (s.equals("b")) {
              return Observable.error(new IllegalStateException("I dont like b"));
              }
              return Observable.just(s);
              }
              });</codeblock><p>You
                                can then use <apiname>mergeDelayError</apiname> to defer error
                                handling until the end. If you un-comment the
                                    <apiname>onErrorResumeNext</apiname>, it will silently discard
                                any errors as well leaving you with an <codeph>Observable</codeph>
                                that provides best-effort processing of the source
                                    <codeph>Observables</codeph>.
                                </p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">   Observable.mergeDelayError(dataObservables)
          //.onErrorResumeNext(Observable.&lt;String&gt;empty())
            .toBlocking()
            .forEach(new Action1&lt;String&gt;() {
              @Override
              public void call(String s) {
              System.out.println(s);
              }
              });        </codeblock><p>Alternatively,
                                you can use <apiname>flatMap</apiname> and make sure the errors are
                                contained for each emitted
                                <codeph>Observable</codeph>:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">    Observable
          .just("a", "b", "c", "d")
          .flatMap(new Func1&lt;String, Observable&lt;String&gt;&gt;() {
            @Override
            public Observable&lt;String&gt; call(String s) {
              // Simulate some observable that sometimes fails
              Observable&lt;String&gt; obs;
                if (s.equals("b")) {
                obs = Observable.error(new IllegalStateException("I dont like b"));
                } else {
                obs = Observable.just(s);
                }

                // Here comes the actual handling part before we flatten it back
                return obs.onErrorResumeNext(Observable.&lt;String&gt;empty());
                  }
                  })
                  .toBlocking()
                  .forEach(new Action1&lt;String&gt;() {
                    @Override
                    public void call(String s) {
                    System.out.println(s);
                    }
                    });
        </codeblock><p>As
                                a more practical example here is a best effort bulk loading of
                                documents from Couchbase Server that just discards operations that
                                fail: </p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">    private static Observable&lt;JsonDocument&gt; loadDocsBestEffort(Bucket bucket, List&lt;String&gt; ids) {
            return Observable
            .from(ids)
            .flatMap(new Func1&lt;String, Observable&lt;JsonDocument&gt;&gt;() {
              @Override
              public Observable&lt;JsonDocument&gt; call(String id) {
                return bucket
                .async()
                .get(id)
                .onErrorResumeNext(Observable.&lt;JsonDocument&gt;empty());
                  }
                  });
                  }
        </codeblock>
                            <p>Of course, you can add more logic onto each emitted
                                    <codeph>Observable</codeph> and also proper logging so that you
                                at least know which errors occurred.</p></dd>
    </dlentry>
  </dl>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Full Retry Bulk Handling</dt>
        <dd>Full retry bulk handling can be done by just chaining one of the retry operators right
              at the end of the <codeph>Observable</codeph> chain. <note type="note">This example
                uses Java 8 Lambda syntax for conciseness.</note><codeblock outputclass="language-java">    private static Observable&lt;JsonDocument&gt; loadDocsFullRetry(Bucket bucket, List&lt;String&gt; ids) {
              return Observable
              .from(ids)
              .flatMap(id -> return bucket.async().get(id))
              .retry(4);
              } </codeblock>
              <p>This is, however, a bit crude because the whole list of IDs will be retried if
                there is an error. This is the case even if the error happens late in the stream and
                some items have already been emitted. Imagine that you retrieve items
                  <codeph>A</codeph>, <codeph>B</codeph>, <codeph>C</codeph>, <codeph>D</codeph> and
                that an error occurs just the first time the SDK retrieves C. What you will see is
                  <codeph>A</codeph>, <codeph>B</codeph>, <codeph>A</codeph>, <codeph>B</codeph>,
                  <codeph>C</codeph>, <codeph>D</codeph>.</p><p>This can be mitigated by using the
                  <apiname>distinct()</apiname> operator, but keep in mind the memory tradeoff
                (distinct will maintain a set of values it saw in the background, which can be
                problematic for infinite or very large streams).</p></dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Incremental Retry Bulk Handling</dt>
        <dd>Incremental retry improves on full retry by only actually retrying elements that
              couldn't be loaded. It is easily done by chaining the retry operators inside the
                <apiname>flatMap</apiname> instead of outside of it.
              <codeblock outputclass="language-java">    private static Observable&lt;JsonDocument&gt; loadDocsIncrementalRetry(Bucket bucket, List&lt;String&gt; ids) {
              return Observable
              .from(ids)
              .flatMap(id -> return bucket.async().get(id)
              .retry(4)
              );
              }         </codeblock>
              One thing to keep in mind with <apiname>flatMap</apiname> is that the order of
              emissions isn't guaranteed to be the same as the source emissions. This can be
              especially visible in this case since individual streams are retried on their own:
              retried keys could come back with a value much later than other keys, more often
              changing the order in which they appear.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Bulk Pattern, <apiname>BackpressureException</apiname> and Reactive Pull
                            Backpressure</dt>
        <dd>The bulk pattern is powerful, but if you try it with a very large collection, it is
              especially susceptible to a <apiname>BackpressureException</apiname>. This exception
              is a way for the SDK to tell you that you're asking for too much in a short amount of
              time, and requests have piled up too much while waiting for a server response to free
              up a spot. <p>By default, the internal structure that holds pending requests is sized
                to a little over 16 000 slots. Since <apiname>from</apiname> iterates over a
                collection in memory, which is <i>very</i> fast, it can easily flood the SDK if the
                size of it is over or close to 16K.</p><p>You could try to react to that by
                implementing a retry strategy, but it is hard to get it right. Fortunately, RxJava
                comes with an even better solution, a form of flow-control called <term>reactive
                  pull backpressure</term> that you can leverage to avoid getting a
                  <apiname>BackpressureException</apiname>. </p><p>This is done through the
                Subscriber, its <apiname>onStart()</apiname> method and the
                  <apiname>request(n)</apiname> method.</p><note type="note">You have to use the
                Subscriber to <apiname>subscribe()</apiname> instead of the convenience methods that
                just take <apiname>Action</apiname> individually for <apiname>next</apiname>,
                  <apiname>error</apiname> and <apiname>completed</apiname> handlers.</note>
              <codeblock outputclass="language-java">
    Observable&lt;JsonDocument&gt; largeBulk = Observable
              .from(oneMillionIds)
              .flatMap(id -> return bucket.async().get(id));

              //the subscription is where reactive pull backpressure happens
              largeBulk.subscribe(new Subscriber&lt;JsonDocument&gt;() {

                //onStart initiates the backpressure
                @Override
                public void onStart() {
                request(100);
                }

                @Override
                public void onNext(JsonDocument jsonDocument) {
                System.out.println(jsonDocument.content());
                request(100); //request more items
                }

                //onCompleted and onError are less relevant.
                //Note that if you want to block you'd need a CountDownLatch in this case

                @Override public void onCompleted() { System.out.println("Done"); }

                @Override public void onError(Throwable e) { e.printStackTrace(); }

                });
          </codeblock>
              <p>The <apiname>request(n)</apiname> method allows to notify the upstream source that
                the consumer is ready for more, and is prepared to consume <codeph>n</codeph> items.
                For example, this avoids instant iteration of the collection in the case of
                  <apiname>from</apiname>. And as long as responses come in from Couchbase Server,
                we continue asking for more.</p><p> This is a form of <term>error mitigation</term>,
                and we'll see a few others in the next section. </p></dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
  </sectiondiv>
</section>
<section><title>Error Mitigation</title>
  <p>The idea behind <term>error mitigation</term> is to limit the impact a failing piece had on the
        rest of the system. When an error occurs, you don't want it to cause failures downstream.
        You also want to prevent as much of the error conditions to happen as possible.</p>
  <p>The <apiname>BackpressureException</apiname> and RxJava's <term>reactive pull
          backpressure</term> are forms of error mitigation we already saw since they both allow a
        form of flow control that avoids overloading the system.</p>
<sectiondiv>
  <p><b>Slowing Down</b></p>
  <p>Rate limiting of the requests can be a way to keep the system within parameters that are known
          to be stable, thus mitigating overloading errors. This can happen in the client-to-server
          direction, which avoids making more requests than can be processed later. It can also
          happen in the server-to-client direction, when the client can't keep up with the bandwidth
          at which data is sent from the server because, for instance, it has to process it through
          long-running tasks. Rather than choking on that data when backpressure mechanisms are not
          available, the client can decide to discard some of the data. This is referred to as
            <term>Load Shedding</term>.</p>
  <p>For example, consider a system where multiple sensors write data into Couchbase, and the client
          application reads that data and displays it in a UI. The graphs in the UI can be built on
          a <codeph>sample</codeph> of the data, and that's the key point. The processing rate of
          the data is lower than its producing rate, but at the same time the resolution is also
          lower. That means we can simply ignore some of the data and only consume what's needed,
          such as take the data point at every second to trigger a refresh of the graph in the
          UI.</p>
  <p>RxJava allows you to do that through several operators:</p>
  <ul>
    <li><apiname>sample</apiname> (alternatively <apiname>throttleLast</apiname>) periodically looks at an Observable and emits the item last seen during this period.</li>
    <li><apiname>throttleFirst</apiname> does the same except it emits the <codeph>first</codeph> item seen during the period.</li>
    <li><apiname>debounce</apiname> only emits an item if a given timespan has passed since the last emission, eliminating items that are rapidly following another item.</li>
  </ul>
  <p>The operator <apiname>sample</apiname> is useful for sources that are "too chatty" even at a
                    regular rate. The operator <apiname>debounce</apiname>, on the other hand, is
                    really shining with sources that have a variable rate of emission. The sources
                    only trigger a web search for auto-complete suggestions from an input form once
                    the user has stopped typing for 500ms.</p>

</sectiondiv>
  <sectiondiv>
    <p><b>Semaphore</b></p>
    <p>To limit the strain put on dependencies of your application, one possibility is to put hard
          limits on how many concurrent threads can access a resource. This is done with the classic
          concurrency programming pattern of the <apiname>Semaphore</apiname>, which is implemented
          in <apiname>java.util.concurrent</apiname> since Java 7.</p>

    <p>Note that Semaphores are a bit different from locks since they don't have a notion of
          ownership. For example, two different threads can respectively
            <apiname>acquire()</apiname> and <apiname>release()</apiname> a
            <apiname>Semaphore</apiname> permit), which can avoid things like deadlocks.</p>
    <p>The same concept could also be implemented using a fixed-size thread pool. Such thread pool
          adds overhead but allows upstream code to just "walk away" from the call if it takes too
          long for a slot to become available, providing an even better isolation.</p>

  </sectiondiv>
  <sectiondiv>
    <p><b>Collapsing Requests</b></p>
    <p>Another way of mitigating errors is to batch similar requests together and "collapse" them
                    into one request to the subsystem. If you have multiple threads that potentially
                    ask for the same data, the benefit can be immediate by just putting a facade on
                    your calls that will de-duplicate parallel requests.</p>
    <p>You can go beyond and trade a little bit of latency to allow for more potential
                    de-duplication. Wait a little longer to see if any duplicate request comes in
                    before firing the actual de-duplicated request.</p>
  </sectiondiv> <sectiondiv>
    <p><b>Implementation</b></p>
    <p>All the mentioned techniques can be easily implemented in an application in a
          RxJava-compatible way by using another library from Netflix, <xref
            href="https://github.com/Netflix/Hystrix/wiki" format="html" scope="external"
            >Hystrix</xref>. It is a very comprehensive library for building resilient applications,
          including techniques for error mitigation but also failing fast. Here, the circuit-breaker
          pattern short-circuits calls to a service that is known to be down until we detect it is
          back up, which stops cascading failures, provides fallbacks and gathers metrics.</p>
  </sectiondiv>
</section>
  </body>
</topic>
