<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="authenticating_with_certificates">
  
    <title>
        Using Certificates
    </title>
    
    <shortdesc>
        A Java SDK-based client can authenticate with Couchbase Server by means of certificates.
    </shortdesc>

  <body>
    <section>
        <title>
            Certificate-Based Authentication
        </title>
        
            <p>
                Couchbase Server supports the use of x.509 certificates to authenticate clients. This ensures
                that only approved users can access specific resources. The process relies on a certificate
                authority, for the issuing of certificates that validate identities. A certificate includes
                information such as the name of the entity it identifies, an expiration date, the name of the authority
                that issued the certificate, the digital signature of the authority, and more.
            </p>
        
            <p>
                A client attempting to access Couchbase Server can present a certificate to the server, allowing
                the server to check the validity of the certificate. If the certificate is valid, the user
                under whose identity the client is running,
                and the roles assigned that user, are verified. If the assigned roles are appropriate for
                the level of access requested to the specified resource, access is granted.
            </p>
        
            <p>
                Note that this means that the explicit authentication process otherwise required by Couchbase <i>Role-Based
                Access Control</i> &#8212; whereby, in Java, username and password are passed by means of the 
                <codeph>authenticate</codeph> method on the <codeph>Cluster</codeph> object &#8212; is not needed.
                (See
                <xref href="./start-using-sdk.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Start Using the SDK</xref> for
                an example of such standard authentication.)
            </p>
        
            <p>
                For a more detailed conceptual description of certificate-based authentication, see
                <xref href="../../security/security-certs-auth.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Certificate-Based
                Authentication</xref>.
            </p>
        
            <p>
                For sample procedures whereby certificates can be generated and deployed, see
                <xref href="../../security/security-x509certsintro.dita" scope="local" format="dita">X.509 for TLS</xref>.
                Note that this page includes the steps whereby a Java keystore is created, to enable
                certificate-based authentication by a Java client.
            </p>
        
        </section>
      
      <section>
          <title>
              Authenticating a Java Client by Certificate
          </title>
          
          <p>
              To authenticate with Couchbase Server by means of a client certificate, a Java application
              must have access to an appropriate <i>keystore</i>, residing on a local filesystem. A
              procedure for the creation of such a keystore is provided in
              <xref href="../../security/security-x509certsintro.dita" scope="local" format="dita">X.509 for TLS</xref>.
              The following Java code assumes that this procedure has been followed. The procedure's resulting
              keystore gives the Java client <b>Bucket Full Access</b> permissions on the <i>travel-sample</i>
              bucket: to be successful, therefore, the Couchbase Server-node that is accessed must feature
              a user-definition where the username is <codeph>travel-sample</codeph>, and the <b>Bucket Full
              Access</b> role has been granted to that user for the <i>travel-sample</i> bucket.
          </p>
          
          <codeblock outputclass="language-java">package certificatetest.java;
              
import com.couchbase.client.java.Bucket;
import com.couchbase.client.java.Cluster;
import com.couchbase.client.java.CouchbaseCluster;
import com.couchbase.client.java.document.JsonDocument;
import com.couchbase.client.java.env.CouchbaseEnvironment;
import com.couchbase.client.java.env.DefaultCouchbaseEnvironment;

public class CertificateTest
{
    public static void main(String [] args)
    {
        CouchbaseEnvironment env = DefaultCouchbaseEnvironment
        .builder()
        .sslEnabled(true)
        .sslKeystoreFile("/user/ubuntu/my.keystore")
        .sslKeystorePassword("storepass")
        .certAuthEnabled(true)
        .build();

        Cluster userCluster = CouchbaseCluster.create(env, "10.143.173.101");

        Bucket travelSample = userCluster.openBucket("travel-sample");th

        JsonDocument returnedAirline10doc = travelSample.get("airline_10");
        System.out.println("Found: " + returnedAirline10doc);
    }
}</codeblock>
      </section>
      
      <p>
        As this example shows, certificate-based authentication is enabled by means of
        the <codeph>CouchbaseEnvironment</codeph> class. (See
        <xref href="./client-settings.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Client Settings</xref>
        for details). The certificate-related options are as follows:
      </p>
        
        <ul>
            <li>
                <codeph>.sslEnabled()</codeph>: Enables use of securesockets.
            </li>
            
            <li>
                <codeph>.sslKeystoreFile</codeph>: Specifies the local pathname of the keystore to be 
                used by the Java client in authentication.  
            </li>
            
            <li>
                <codeph>.sslKeystorePassword</codeph>: Specifies the password of the keystore. 
            </li>
            
           <li>
               <codeph>.certAuthEnabled</codeph>: Enables the server's authentication of the client by 
               means of the certificates within the keystore.
           </li>
        
        </ul>
      
      <p>
        The username <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> is specified within the keystore: therefore,
        neither the RBAC username or associated password need be
        specified in the Java code (only the bucket-name, <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> is specified,
        in order to open the bucket).
      </p>
      
      <p>
          Program-output might appear as follows:
      </p>
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-json">Found: JsonDocument
{
    id='airline_10', 
    cas=1506602602177888256, 
    expiry=0, 
    content={
        "country":"United States",
        "iata":"Q5",
        "callsign":"MILE-AIR",
        "name":"40-Mile Air","icao":"MLA",
        "id":10,
        "type":"airline"}, 
    mutationToken=null
}
      </codeblock>
    </body>
</topic>
