<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept2677">
	<title>Collecting Information</title>

	<shortdesc>The Java SDK logs events and also provides an event bus that transmits information about the behavior of your
		database system, including system and metric events. It has no hard dependency on a specific logger implementation.</shortdesc>
	<conbody>

    <section><title>Logging</title>

  <p>The Couchbase Java SDK has no hard dependency on a specific logger implementation. It
    tries to find a logger on the class path and uses that logger if it is supported by the SDK.
    If no logger implementation is found, the standard JDK logger is used.</p>


    <p>The following loggers are supported (and tried in this order):</p>

    <ol>
      <li>SLF4J</li>
      <li>Log4J</li>
      <li>JDK Logger (java.util.logging)</li>
    </ol>


  <p><b>Configuring SLF4J</b></p>


      <p>To enable SLF4J, put it on the class path, as well as one of the support logger
        implementations (like logback). If you want to use logback and include logback-classic,
        it will be pulled in automatically:</p>

      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml"><![CDATA[<dependency>
    <groupId>ch.qos.logback</groupId>
    <artifactId>logback-classic</artifactId>
    <version>1.1.2</version>
  </dependency>]]></codeblock>

      <p>By default, the log level for logback is set to DEBUG, but with the addition of a
        logback configuration this can be configured (for example, as a
          <filepath>logback.xml</filepath> in the resources folder):</p>

      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml"><![CDATA[<configuration>
    <appender name="STDOUT" class="ch.qos.logback.core.ConsoleAppender">
        <encoder>
            <pattern>%d{HH:mm:ss.SSS} [%thread] %-5level %logger{36} - %msg%n</pattern>
        </encoder>
    </appender>

    <root level="info">
        <appender-ref ref="STDOUT" />
    </root>
  </configuration>]]></codeblock>

      <p>Consult the SLF4J documentation for advanced configuration.</p>


    <p><b>Configuring Log4J</b></p>

      <p>Log4J is also automatically found when put on the classpath:</p>

      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml"><![CDATA[<dependency>
    <groupId>log4j</groupId>
    <artifactId>log4j</artifactId>
    <version>1.2.17</version>
  </dependency>]]></codeblock>

      <p>If no configuration is applied, the following message appears:</p>

      <pre><![CDATA[log4j:WARN No appenders could be found for logger (com.couchbase.client.core.logging.CouchbaseLoggerFactory).
  log4j:WARN Please initialize the log4j system properly.
  log4j:WARN See http://logging.apache.org/log4j/1.2/faq.html#noconfig for more info.]]></pre>

      <p>This <filepath>log4j.xml</filepath> sets it to INFO level:</p>

      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
  <!DOCTYPE log4j:configuration SYSTEM "log4j.dtd">
  <log4j:configuration xmlns:log4j='http://jakarta.apache.org/log4j/'>
    <appender name="CA" class="org.apache.log4j.ConsoleAppender">
        <layout class="org.apache.log4j.PatternLayout">
            <param name="ConversionPattern" value="%-4r [%t] %-5p %c %x - %m%n" />
        </layout>
    </appender>
    <root>
        <level value="info" />
        <appender-ref ref="CA" />
    </root>
  </log4j:configuration>]]></codeblock>

      <p>Alternatively, you can provide a <filepath>log4j.properties</filepath> file with similar
        settings:</p>

      <codeblock><![CDATA[log4j.rootLogger=INFO, CA
  log4j.appender.CA=org.apache.log4j.ConsoleAppender
  log4j.appender.CA.layout=org.apache.log4j.PatternLayout
  log4j.appender.CA.layout.ConversionPattern=%-4r [%t] %-5p %c %x - %m%n]]></codeblock>

      <p>Consult the Log4J documentation for more information and advanced configuration
        options.</p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Configuring the JDK Logger</title>

      <p>If no logging library is found on the class path, the JDK logger (also known as JUL from
          <codeph>java.util.logging</codeph>) is used as a fallback.</p>

      <p>By default it logs INFO level and above. If you want to set it to DEBUG (or the JUL
        equivalent: Fine) you can do it like this programmatically before initializing the
          <codeph>CouchbaseCluster</codeph> object:</p>

      <codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Logger logger = Logger.getLogger("com.couchbase.client");
  logger.setLevel(Level.FINE);
  for(Handler h : logger.getParent().getHandlers()) {
    if(h instanceof ConsoleHandler){
        h.setLevel(Level.FINE);
    }
  }]]></codeblock>

      <p>You should not use JUL in production because SLF4J and Log4J provide better
        configuration options and performance.</p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Manual Overriding</title>

      <p>If different loggers are on the class path and you want to force a different one (for example
        Log4J instead of SLF4J) you can set the default one directly:</p>

      <codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[CouchbaseLoggerFactory.setDefaultFactory(new Log4JLoggerFactory());]]></codeblock>

    </section>


		<section>
			<title>The Event Bus</title>


      <p>Log files are neither fun to wade through, nor do they have any kind of real-time aspect. To
  			make them usable, normally their content is piped into systems such as <xref
  				href="http://graphite.wikidot.com" format="html" scope="external">Graphite</xref> or
  				<xref href="https://www.elastic.co/products/logstash" format="html" scope="external"
  				>Logstash</xref>. Since most setups interleave all different kinds of log messages, it
  			makes it very hard to see whats going on, let alone perform post-disaster analysis.</p>
  		<p>To make the situation better and ultimately improve supportability, the Java SDK provides
  			you with the following:</p>
  		<ul id="ul_trq_ygq_ft">
  			<li>An event bus that allows you to receive system and metric events as they are created</li>
  			<li>System and metric events generated by the SDK that allow near real-time insight and
  				consumability</li>
  		</ul>
  		<p>It may not be visible instantly that this provides a huge leap forward in detecting and
  			reacting to different kinds of situations. You can subscribe to the event bus, receive and
  			react to events as they are happening; not when someone parses the logs, sends them into
  			another system where an alarm is triggered and eventually a sysadmin will check whats going
  			on. The time delta between an event happening and reacting to it can be massively
  			decreased.</p>

			<p>The event bus provides the foundational piece of code through which the SDK publishes events
				and the user receives them. Because <codeph>Observable</codeph> semantics fit really
				well here, it is exposed as such through the environment.</p>
			<p>The following code subscribes to the event bus and prints out all events that are
				published on it:</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-java">// Create the Environment
CouchbaseEnvironment env = DefaultCouchbaseEnvironment.create();

// Subscribe to the Event Bus and print out all events
env.eventBus().get().subscribe(System.out::println);

// Connect to the cluster, open the bucket and then disconnect to generate events.
Cluster cluster = CouchbaseCluster.create(env, "192.168.56.101");
Bucket bucket = cluster.openBucket("travel-sample");
cluster.disconnect();</codeblock>
			<p>Connected to a three-node cluster, this will print the following events (in your IDE
				probably interleaved with the regular logs):</p>
			<codeblock>NodeConnectedEvent{host=vnode1/192.168.56.101}
ConfigUpdatedEvent{bucketNames=[travel-sample],
   clusterNodes=[vnode1/192.168.56.101, vnode2/192.168.56.102, vnode3/192.168.56.103]}
BucketOpenedEvent{name='travel-sample'}
NodeConnectedEvent{host=vnode3/192.168.56.103}
NodeConnectedEvent{host=vnode2/192.168.56.102}
ConfigUpdatedEvent{bucketNames=[], clusterNodes=[]}
BucketClosedEvent{name='travel-sample'}
NodeDisconnectedEvent{host=vnode3/192.168.56.103}
NodeDisconnectedEvent{host=vnode2/192.168.56.102}</codeblock>
			<p>We recommend filtering on the specific events you are interested in, since most of the time
				only a subset of the published ones will be of use to you. You can use the
					<codeph>Observable#filter</codeph> method to help with that. Of course you can
				subscribe as often as you want if you need to move different events to different
				downstream systems.</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-java">// Only care about system events (no metrics)
env.eventBus().get()
    .filter(ev -&gt; ev.type().equals(EventType.SYSTEM))
    .subscribe(System.out::println);</codeblock>
		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Consumers</title>
			<p>Printing events is not that fancy, so the SDK comes bundled with a few consumers (with
				the plan to add more in the future). They are sample implementations for common use
				cases and also provide inspiration to write your own. The only rule to keep in mind is:
					<b>do not block in your subscriber without moving it over to a different
					scheduler.</b> This is true for RxJava in general, but if you add a subscriber and
				then use a blocking API to push the data into a remote system, you can probably hold up
				the whole thing. So either use non-blocking code all the way down or make sure to move
				it onto a different scheduler (for example
					through<codeph>.observeOn(Schedulers.io())</codeph>).</p>
			<p>The SDK ships with the following consumers:</p>
			<ul id="ul_qvx_yhq_ft">
				<li><b>LoggingConsumer</b>: all events will be logged to a file on the configured log
					level. In addition, if not configured otherwise all events will be turned into JSON
					so it is both human and machine readable.</li>
				<li><b>BucketConsumer</b>: all events will be written into a Couchbase Bucket as JSON
					documents. You can use this to demo the event bus or write to a bucket that collects
					actual log data.</li>
			</ul>
			<p>Using them is easy, just subscribe with the consumer:</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-java">// Log system events
env.eventBus().get()
    .filter(ev -&gt; ev.type().equals(EventType.SYSTEM))
    .subscribe(LoggingConsumer.create());

// Store metric events in a couchbase bucket
env.eventBus().get()
    .filter(ev -&gt; ev.type().equals(EventType.METRIC))
    .subscribe(BucketConsumer.create(metricsBucket));</codeblock>
			<p>We are planning on more out-of-the-box consumers (mainly based on user feedback and
				requests), especially one that exposes the data over MXBeans.</p>

		</section>
		<section>
			<title>Default metric logging consumer</title>
			<p>If we wouldn’t enable them by default in some way, the whole thing would entirely miss
				the point. System events are logged anyways, but metric events would never be
				visible.</p>
			<p>In order to mitigate that, a logging consumer which listens on the metric events and
				prints them to the configured logger every hour is run by default. If you want to tune
				the intervals, see the next sections on configuration.</p>
			<p>The logger itself can be tuned (or disabled) on the environment. The following
				configuration changes the compact JSON format to something more verbose, but decreases
				the default log level (INFO) to debug:</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-java">CouchbaseEnvironment env = DefaultCouchbaseEnvironment
    .builder()
    .defaultMetricsLoggingConsumer(true, CouchbaseLogLevel.DEBUG, LoggingConsumer.OutputFormat.JSON_PRETTY)
    .build();</codeblock>
			<p>If you want to disable it completely, set the first argument to false (and just set any
				logging level you want, it won’t be used:)</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-java">CouchbaseEnvironment env = DefaultCouchbaseEnvironment
    .builder()
    .defaultMetricsLoggingConsumer(false, CouchbaseLogLevel.INFO)
    .build();</codeblock>
			<p>This default logger is really meant to have something reusable in the application logs.
				If you are planning to do something more fancy with metric information anyways, you can
				disable the default one and then attach your custom consumers (or one that comes with
				the SDK).</p>
		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Configurations and defaults</title>
			<p>By default, system events will be published as they happen and metric events are
				published every hour (to not flood the logs in production systems).</p>
			<p>This section describes the configuration options available, the next sections dig into
				the actual events and the data you can gather from them.</p>
			<p>If you need a more recent insight into metric events you can tune them through the
				environment. Currently you can tune the settings for the following metric collectors
				(which emit the events eventually):</p>
			<ul id="ul_qyk_n3q_ft">
				<li>RuntimeMetricsCollector</li>
				<li>NetworkLatencyMetricsCollector</li>
			</ul>
			<p>
				<b>Configuring the RuntimeMetricsCollector</b>
			</p>
			<p>The <codeph>RuntimeMetricsCollector</codeph> collects metrics from the JVM runtime and
				can be configured on the <codeph>CouchbaseEnvironment</codeph>. By default it will emit
				an event every hour, but you can tune the emit frequency and its timeout very
				easily.</p>
			<p>The following code sets it from once per hour to once per minute:</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-java">CouchbaseEnvironment env = DefaultCouchbaseEnvironment
    .builder()
    .runtimeMetricsCollectorConfig(DefaultMetricsCollectorConfig.create(1, TimeUnit.MINUTES))
    .build();</codeblock>
			<p>You can also easily disable collection and emission completely:</p>
			<codeblock>CouchbaseEnvironment env = DefaultCouchbaseEnvironment
    .builder()
    .runtimeMetricsCollectorConfig(DefaultMetricsCollectorConfig.disabled())
    .build();</codeblock>
			<p>
				<b>Configuring the NetworkLatencyMetricsCollector</b>
			</p>
			<p>The <codeph>NetworkLatencyMetricsCollector</codeph> collects operation timings on a very
				granular basis, so there is a little more you can configure in addition to the emit
				interval. If you just want to do that, it is identical to the
					<codeph>RuntimeMetricsCollector</codeph>:</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-java">CouchbaseEnvironment env = DefaultCouchbaseEnvironment
    .builder()
    .networkLatencyMetricsCollectorConfig(DefaultLatencyMetricsCollectorConfig.create(1, TimeUnit.MINUTES))
    .build();</codeblock>
			<p>You can also use the <codeph>disabled</codeph> method for easy disabling of the whole
				collection process. In addition to the emit interval, you can tune parameters such as
				the target percentiles and the target unit. For this the same builder API is available
				like on the environment itself. So if you want to use milliseconds instead of
				microseconds (the default) and you only care about the 99 percentile (instead of 50.0,
				90.0, 95.0, 99.0 and 99.9 as the default), you can configure it like this:</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-java">CouchbaseEnvironment env = DefaultCouchbaseEnvironment
    .builder()
    .networkLatencyMetricsCollectorConfig(DefaultLatencyMetricsCollectorConfig.builder()
        .targetUnit(TimeUnit.MILLISECONDS)
        .targetPercentiles(new Double[] { 99.0 })
        .build())
    .build();</codeblock>
			<p>The great thing about this approach is that because the data is aggregated in a
				histogram, you can pick whatever percentiles and target unit you need for your
				analysis.</p>
		</section>
		<section>
			<title>System events</title>
			<p>System events are emitted as they happen inside the SDK. They are intended to provide
				insight into what the “system” is doing. If you are only interested in system events,
				you can filter them by their type: <codeph>EventType.SYSTEM</codeph>. Right now, the
				following events can be emitted, depending on the current state of the client:</p>
			<table>
				<tgroup cols="3">
					<colspec colnum="1" colname="col1" />
					<colspec colnum="2" colname="col2" />
					<colspec colnum="3" colname="col3" />
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Event</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
							<entry>Contains</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>
								<codeph>BucketOpenedEvent</codeph>
							</entry>
							<entry>A bucket has been opened.</entry>
							<entry>The bucket name.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>
								<codeph>BucketClosedEvent</codeph>
							</entry>
							<entry>A bucket has been closed.</entry>
							<entry>The bucket name.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>
								<codeph>NodeConnectedEvent</codeph>
							</entry>
							<entry>A node has been connected.</entry>
							<entry>The InetAddr of the node.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>
								<codeph>NodeDisconnectedEvent</codeph>
							</entry>
							<entry>A node has been disconnected.</entry>
							<entry>The InetAddr of the node.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>
								<codeph>ConfigUpdatedEvent</codeph>
							</entry>
							<entry>A new configuration has been applied on the client.</entry>
							<entry>All open buckets and all known nodes.</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
			<p>Since the bucket events are most of the time triggered by the application itself, they
				are mainly used for debugging. Especially the<codeph>NodeDisconnectedEvent</codeph> can
				be helpful to send over to a monitoring system, but keep in mind that even during a
				planned rebalance out at some point this event will be raised once the node is gone.</p>
		</section>
		<section><title>Metric events </title><p>Metric events (in contrast to system events) are emitted
				at a fixed frequency that can be tuned by the user. Right now these metric events
				are emitted: </p><ul>
				<li>RuntimeMetricsEvent</li>
				<li>NetworkLatencyMetricsEvent</li>
			</ul>
			<b>The RuntimeMetricsEvent</b>
			<p>Run-time metrics are designed to capture the run-time state at the time of emission.
				The metric contains information about GC, Memory and Threads which it collects
				through the systems MBeans. It makes use of the internal
					<codeph>Diagnostics</codeph> class which collects the information in a
				transparent way and then creates the <codeph>RuntimeMetricsEvent</codeph> for you to
				consume.</p><p>Note that if the collection is disabled on the environment, there is
				no run-time overhead whatsoever (since the collection is triggered on emission every
				interval). </p><p>The following output is from the <codeph>LoggingConsumer</codeph>,
				which turns the message itself into a JSON object so it is nicely formatted. Of
				course, you can access all of that through the event object itself.</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-json">{
  "heap.used" : {
    "init" : 268435456,
    "used" : 17541192,
    "committed" : 257425408,
    "max" : 3817865216
  },
  "gc.ps marksweep.collectionTime" : 0,
  "gc.ps scavenge.collectionTime" : 23,
  "gc.ps scavenge.collectionCount" : 3,
  "thread.count" : 31,
  "offHeap.used" : {
    "init" : 2555904,
    "used" : 29304560,
    "committed" : 29949952,
    "max" : -1
  },
  "gc.ps marksweep.collectionCount" : 0,
  "heap.pendingFinalize" : 0,
  "thread.peakCount" : 31,
  "event" : {
    "name" : "RuntimeMetrics",
    "type" : "METRIC"
  },
  "thread.startedCount" : 32
}
</codeblock>
			<p>Gathering this information over a longer period of time gives you insight in system
				trends even if you don’t have full blown monitoring on every application server.</p>
			<b>The NetworkLatencyMetricsEvent</b>
			<p>The NetworkLatencyMetricsEvent is the most involved event of all when it comes to
				creation. Because latency metrics need to be gathered on every request/response and
				then aggregated on emission, the SDK uses some excellent libraries under the covers
					(<xref href="http://hdrhistogram.github.io/HdrHistogram/" format="html"
					scope="external">HdrHistogram</xref> and the corresponding <xref
					href="http://latencyutils.github.io/LatencyUtils/" format="html"
					scope="external">LatencyUtils</xref>) and repackages them so you don’t run into
				classpath issues.</p>
			<p>The I/O event loops will track timestamps after encoding and before decoding and then
				send them into individual histograms located in a central collector. Note that the
				collected times still include time in the netty event loops, the JVM and the
				operating system. Real network time can only be collected by external parties
				through tools like <xref href="http://www.tcpdump.org/" format="html"
					scope="external">tcpdump</xref>. At emission time, the data is taken, aggregated
				and the event is published onto the event bus. Note that because the way the
				underlying histograms work, the data is cleaned on every emission, meaning that if
				you do 10 second interval emits you exclusively get the data for the last 10 second
				interval. </p><p>To provide as much insight as possible into what’s going on in the
				layer below, the data is collected an formatted in a tree-like structure. The format
				always is:
				</p><codeblock>Node > Service Type > Request Type > Response > Status</codeblock><p>The
				components in this format are: </p><ul>
				<li><b>Node:</b> The host name of the target server in the cluster.</li>
				<li><b>Service Type:</b> The service on each node. Right now there are
						<codeph>BINARY</codeph> (key/value), <codeph>VIEW</codeph>,
						<codeph>QUERY</codeph> (N1QL), <codeph>CONFIG</codeph> (internal 8091
					communication) and <codeph>DCP</codeph>.</li>
				<li><b>Request Type:</b> The type of request you are sending, for example
						<codeph>GetRequest</codeph>, or <codeph>UpsertRequest</codeph>.</li>
				<li><b>Response Status:</b> The raw response status the server returned, for example
						<codeph>SUCCESS</codeph>, <codeph>EXISTS</codeph> or many more types. You
					can find all of them on the
						<codeph>com.couchbase.client.core.message.ResponseStatus</codeph> enum.
				</li>
			</ul><p>Because metrics are collected at a very low level, some mappings might not feel
				familiar to you, because the java client maps them into proper exceptions and so
				forth. Also, you’ll see requests in the dump which you didn’t command but that are
				part of the underlying communication, for example a
					<codeph>GetBucketConfigurationRequest</codeph> and so forth. </p><p>So taking
				our new knowledge to the test, here is some output from the metrics, collected over
				a 30 second interval. What can we gather from it?
				</p><codeblock outputclass="language-json">{
  "10.142.111.102": {
    "BINARY": {
      "GetRequest": {
        "NOT_EXISTS": {
          "metrics": {
            "percentiles": {
              "50.0": 124,
              "90.0": 199,
              "95.0": 234,
              "99.0": 489,
              "99.9": 3784
            },
            "min": 69,
            "max": 175112,
            "count": 74864,
            "timeUnit": "MICROSECONDS"
          }
        }
      },
      "UpsertRequest": {
        "SUCCESS": {
          "metrics": {
            "percentiles": {
              "50.0": 1269,
              "90.0": 1835,
              "95.0": 2670,
              "99.0": 6160,
              "99.9": 6389
            },
            "min": 561,
            "max": 6389,
            "count": 145,
            "timeUnit": "MICROSECONDS"
          }
        }
      },
      "GetBucketConfigRequest": {
        "SUCCESS": {
          "metrics": {
            "percentiles": {
              "50.0": 741,
              "90.0": 741,
              "95.0": 741,
              "99.0": 741,
              "99.9": 741
            },
            "min": 737,
            "max": 741,
            "count": 1,
            "timeUnit": "MICROSECONDS"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "10.142.111.101": {
    "BINARY": {
      "GetRequest": {
        "NOT_EXISTS": {
          "metrics": {
            "percentiles": {
              "50.0": 123,
              "90.0": 198,
              "95.0": 236,
              "99.0": 6060,
              "99.9": 40460
            },
            "min": 69,
            "max": 1520430,
            "count": 73996,
            "timeUnit": "MICROSECONDS"
          }
        }
      },
      "GetBucketConfigRequest": {
        "SUCCESS": {
          "metrics": {
            "percentiles": {
              "50.0": 366,
              "90.0": 4489,
              "95.0": 4489,
              "99.0": 4489,
              "99.9": 4489
            },
            "min": 364,
            "max": 4489,
            "count": 2,
            "timeUnit": "MICROSECONDS"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "event": {
    "name": "NetworkLatencyMetrics",
    "type": "METRIC"
  }
}
</codeblock><p>If
				you take a look at the numbers, here is what you can infer from these metrics:</p><ol>
				<li>Our get requests are evenly distributed over the 2 nodes, but they are all not
					finding the document (<codeph>NOT_EXISTS</codeph>). In the Java API, this means
					returning null on a <codeph>get</codeph> operation.</li>
				<li>We have a very high get to mutation ratio. In this interval we had over 148900
					get requests, but only 145 upsert requests.</li>
				<li>Get requests on <codeph>10.142.111.101</codeph> have significant outliers (check
					out the max), while on <codeph>10.142.111.102</codeph> they don’t. At this point
					we might want to start investigate the server side logs and stats and see what's
					going on this specific node.</li>
				<li>The Upsert operations did all go through well and don’t have latency outliers,
					but they all seem to be against one node and not two.</li>
			</ol><p>Looking at the sample code that produces the metrics, you can see that items 2
				and 4 in the previous list are explainable while items 1 and 3 were discovered based
				on the metrics (and can point to potential issues).
			</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">while(true) {
    for (int i = 0; i &lt; 1024; i++) {
        metricsBucket.get("key" +i); // this doc has never been created

        // once every loop we create the document, but always with the same id
        // so it goes to the same node, naturally.
        if (i == 500) {
            metricsBucket.upsert(JsonDocument.create("mydoc"+i));
        }
    }
} </codeblock></section>
	</conbody></concept>
