<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept2677">
    <title>Managing Clusters</title>
    <shortdesc>You can manage Couchbase clusters programmatically from the Java SDK by using a
			<codeph>ClusterManager</codeph> object. </shortdesc>
    <conbody>
		<section><title>Cluster Management</title>
			<p>To perform cluster-level management tasks, you need to get a reference to the
				<codeph>ClusterManager</codeph> object.</p>	
			<sectiondiv>
				<b>Access the ClusterManager</b>
				<p> To access the <codeph>ClusterManager</codeph> object through the
						<codeph>Cluster</codeph> you need to provide administrative
					credentials:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">Cluster cluster = CouchbaseCluster.create("127.0.0.1");
ClusterManager clusterManager = cluster.clusterManager("Administrator", "password");</codeblock><p>The
						<codeph>ClusterManager</codeph> class provides methods that enable you to
					retrieve information about the cluster state and manage buckets in the
					cluster:</p><table>
					<title>ClusterManager methods</title>
					<tgroup cols="2">
						<colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
						<colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
						<thead>
							<row>
								<entry>Method</entry>
								<entry>Description</entry>
							</row>
						</thead>
						<tbody>
							<row>
								<entry><codeph>info</codeph></entry>
								<entry>Provides cluster information</entry>
							</row>
							<row>
								<entry><codeph>getBuckets</codeph></entry>
								<entry>Lists all buckets with their settings from the
									cluster</entry>
							</row>
							<row>
								<entry><codeph>getBucket</codeph></entry>
								<entry>Gets a bucket with its settings from the cluster</entry>
							</row>
							<row>
								<entry><codeph>hasBucket</codeph></entry>
								<entry>Checks if a bucket exists or not on the cluster</entry>
							</row>
							<row>
								<entry><codeph>insertBucket</codeph></entry>
								<entry>Creates a new bucket on the cluster</entry>
							</row>
							<row>
								<entry><codeph>updateBucket</codeph></entry>
								<entry>Updates a bucket on the cluster</entry>
							</row>
							<row>
								<entry><codeph>removeBucket</codeph></entry>
								<entry>Removes a bucket from the cluster</entry>
							</row>
						</tbody>
					</tgroup>
				</table>
			</sectiondiv>
	<sectiondiv>
				<b>Cluster information</b>
				<p>When you call <codeph>ClusterManager#info()</codeph> it returns a
						<codeph>ClusterInfo</codeph> object that contains both raw and typed
					information on the overall cluster state. In addition to the
						<codeph>ClusterInfo#raw()</codeph> method that provides direct access to
					everything returned by the server, the following methods are available:</p><ul>
					<li>
						<p>To find out the minimum version of all nodes in the cluster, you can use
							the <codeph>ClusterInfo#getMinVersion()</codeph> method. For example, if
							you have 3 nodes running version 3.1 and one running version 3.0.3, it
							reports version 3.0.3.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>If you want to check if a certain feature is enabled on the cluster, you
							can use the <codeph>checkAvailable</codeph> method and pass in one of
								the<codeph>CouchbaseFeature</codeph> enumerations. It uses the
							minimum cluster version as a basis and then asserts it against the
							minimum version of the passed in feature. The SDK uses this internally
							to determine if specific integration tests can be executed against the
							connected cluster, and so can you.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The <codeph>getAllVersions</codeph> method returns the version number of
							all nodes in the cluster.</p>
					</li>
				</ul></sectiondiv>
		</section>
		<section>
			<title>Bucket Management</title>
			<p>The ClusterManager class provides methods to create, update, and remove buckets. Creating
				buckets and destorying buckets is performed, for example,  when running unit
				tests.</p>
			<sectiondiv><b>Create a bucket</b>
				<p>To create a bucket, first define the bucket attributes in a
						<codeph>BucketSettings</codeph> object, and then pass it to the
						<codeph>insertBucket()</codeph>
					method:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">new DefaultBucketSettings.Builder()
    .type(BucketType.COUCHBASE)
    .name("hello")
    .password("s3cret")
    .quota(100) // megabytes
    .replicas(0)
    .indexReplicas(false)
    .enableFlush(false)
    .build();

manager.insertBucket(bucketSettings);</codeblock><p>The
						<codeph>name</codeph> and <codeph>quota</codeph> properties are mandatory.
					By default, the type of the bucket is
					<codeph>BucketType.COUCHBASE</codeph>.</p><p>All properties of a bucket except
					the <codeph>name</codeph> and <codeph>type</codeph> can be updated
					programmatically via the <codeph>BucketSettings</codeph> object. If you omit a
					property from the<codeph>BucketSettings</codeph> object, the default value for
					the omitted property is used.</p><p>To avoid any inadvertent changes to bucket
					properties, make sure to set all properties in the
						<codeph>BucketSettings</codeph> object regardless of whether you are
					changing the value or continuing to use the existing value:
				</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">BucketSettings bucketSettings = new DefaultBucketSettings.Builder()
    .type(BucketType.COUCHBASE)
    .name("hello")
    .password("")
    .quota(120) // megabytes
    .replicas(1)
    .indexReplicas(true)
    .enableFlush(true)
    .build();

manager.updateBucket(bucketSettings);</codeblock></sectiondiv>
		<sectiondiv><b>Remove a bucket</b>
				<p>To remove a bucket, pass its name to the <codeph>removeBucket()</codeph>
					method.</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">manager.removeBucket("hello"); </codeblock><p>Since
					all of the bucket management methods require you to deal with
						<codeph>BucketSettings</codeph>, here is a reference table:</p><table>
					<title>BucketSettings methods</title>
					<tgroup cols="2">
						<colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
						<colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
						<thead>
							<row>
								<entry>Method</entry>
								<entry>Description</entry>
							</row>
						</thead>
						<tbody>
							<row>
								<entry>name</entry>
								<entry>The name of the bucket</entry>
							</row>
							<row>
								<entry>type</entry>
								<entry>The type of the bucket (couchbase or memcached)</entry>
							</row>
							<row>
								<entry>quota</entry>
								<entry>The bucket quota</entry>
							</row>
							<row>
								<entry>port</entry>
								<entry>The optional proxy port</entry>
							</row>
							<row>
								<entry>password</entry>
								<entry>The password of the bucket</entry>
							</row>
							<row>
								<entry>replicas</entry>
								<entry>The number of replicas</entry>
							</row>
							<row>
								<entry>indexReplicas</entry>
								<entry>The number of index replicas</entry>
							</row>
							<row>
								<entry>enableFlush</entry>
								<entry>If flush is enabled or not</entry>
							</row>
						</tbody>
					</tgroup>
				</table></sectiondiv>	
		</section>
    	
    	
	</conbody>
</concept>
