<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="java-n1ql">
    <title>N1QL Queries Using the Java SDK with Couchbase Server</title>
    <titlealts><navtitle>N1QL from the SDK</navtitle></titlealts>
    <shortdesc>You can perform N1QL queries via the Java
        client.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <note>See Couchbase Developer documentation for a quick intro to <xref
                href="../../architecture/querying-data-with-n1ql.dita#concept_igg_kq4_vs"
                >N1QL</xref>.</note>

        <p>To issue N1QL queries, you should create a <apiname>N1qlQuery</apiname> object, and pass
            it to the <apiname>query(N1qlQuery q)</apiname> method in the <apiname>Bucket</apiname>
            class. A few variants of such a query exist:
            <ul>
                <li>Simple queries, which are only strings and do not use placeholders;</li>
                <li>Parameterized queries, which use numbered or named placeholders.</li>
            </ul>You can create each via the corresponding factory method on
                <codeph>N1qlQuery</codeph>, which you can create using a Statement produced by the
            N1QL DSL or using the statement directly as a String. </p>
        <p>The return value from <apiname>query()</apiname> is the object
                <apiname>N1qlQueryResult</apiname>. Iterating over the object will yield the rows
            returned by the server for the given query (as <codeph>N1qlQueryRow</codeph>). Each row
            represents a row received for the query. </p>
        <p>Additionally, you can get the <apiname>List&lt;N1qlQueryRow&gt;</apiname> from the
                <apiname>allRows()</apiname> method on the result. Note that errors returned by the
            N1QL service during execution are represented as <apiname>JsonObject</apiname>
            accessible through the <apiname>errors()</apiname> method, rather than exceptions. Here
            is the complete list of <apiname>N1qlQueryResult</apiname> methods: </p>
        <p><ul>
            <li><codeph>parseSuccess</codeph>: Returns <codeph>true</codeph> if the query could be
                    parsed correctly. This information is available immediately even if the actual
                    list of results takes more time to be computed and streamed to the client. </li> <li>
                    <codeph>finalSuccess</codeph>: Returns <codeph>true</codeph> if the whole query
                    could be executed successfully, including retrieving all the results and
                    streaming them to the client. </li> <li>
                    <codeph>allRows</codeph>: Contains all rows returned by the query; it can be an
                    empty list. </li> <li>
                <codeph>rows</codeph>: Same as <codeph>allRows</codeph> but in an iterator form (the <apiname>N1qlQueryResult</apiname> itself is iterable).
            </li> <li>
                <codeph>requestId</codeph>: The server-generated unique ID for this query (useful to find associated logs on the N1QL server).
            </li> <li>
                    <codeph>clientContextId</codeph>: User-provided identifier reflected in the
                    server's response. The identifier can be useful for grouping several queries
                    (for example, in a kind of in-house transaction) and find all associated
                    queries. </li> <li>
                    <codeph>info</codeph>: Returns a <apiname>N1qlMetrics</apiname> object, which
                    contains metrics for the query (such as the number of results or processing
                    time). </li> <li>
                <codeph>errors</codeph>: Returns a list of <apiname>JsonObject</apiname> describing errors or warnings (if any occurred during execution).
            </li>
        </ul></p>
        <p>Each <apiname>N1qlQueryRow</apiname> exposes the JSON representation of the
                <codeph>value()</codeph> as a <apiname>JsonObject</apiname>. It also gives the raw
            bytes for said value (<codeph>byteValue()</codeph>), in case you need them to apply your
          deserialization or <codeph>SELECT RAW</codeph> is used which cannot be turned into a <codeph>JsonObject</codeph>. </p>
        <p>You can use N1QL placeholders in the query. Placeholders allow you to specify variable
            constraints for an otherwise constant query. To use placeholders, manually construct a
                <codeph>N1QLQuery</codeph> object with the base query string, and use a
                <apiname>JsonObject</apiname> of names -> keyword or a <apiname>JsonArray</apiname>
            of positional arguments for named or positional placeholders, respectively:
            <codeblock outputclass="language-java" spectitle="N1QL Query with placeholders">import static com.couchbase.client.java.query.Select.select;
import static com.couchbase.client.java.query.dsl.Expression.*;

// ...
Statement statement = select("fname", "lname", "age").from(i("default")).where(x("age").gt(x("$age")));
JsonObject placeholderValues = JsonObject.create().put("age", 22);
q = N1qlQuery.parameterized(statement, placeholderValues);
for (N1qlQueryRow row : bkt.query(q)) {
    System.out.println(row);
}</codeblock></p>

        <p> N1QL queries can also be fine tuned by setting options using
                <apiname>N1qlParams</apiname> object. These parameters should be added to the query
            object during creation. Here is a subset of options that can be tuned: <ul>
                <li><apiname>serverSideTimeout</apiname> - sets the maximum server side timeout for
                    the query.</li>
                <li><apiname>withContextId</apiname> - adds client context ID to the request that
                    will be sent back in the response, allowing clients to meaningfully trace
                    requests/responses when many are exchanged.</li>
                <li><apiname>consistency</apiname> - sets the consistency level for the query.</li>
                <li><apiname>maxParallelism</apiname> - can override the max parallelism used by the
                    server.</li>
                <li><apiname>adhoc</apiname> - allows to specify if this query is adhoc or not.</li>
            </ul><codeblock outputclass="language-java" spectitle="Adding N1QL parameters to Query">//Using N1qlParams to set adhoc as false for using prepared statements
N1qlParams params = N1qlParams.build().adhoc(false);
N1qlQuery query = N1qlQuery.simple("select count(*) from `mybucket`", params);</codeblock>
            For more information on query parameters in N1QL, see <xref
                href="../../n1ql/n1ql-rest-api/index.dita#concept_djt_2pj_kr"/>.</p>

        <section><title>Building Statements with the DSL</title>
            <p>The N1QL domain-specific language (DSL) is a powerful way to guide you in building
                your statements: you obtain type safety and autocompletion of relevant methods /
                N1QL clauses. </p>
            <p> As of the <codeph>2.2.3</codeph> version of the SDK, the DSL supports the following
                features: <ul>
                    <li>Data selection with <apiname>Select.select(...)</apiname> as an entry point
                        (including index hinting).</li>
                    <li>All N1QL functions, organized by topic in the helper classes in the
                            <apiname>com.couchbase.client.java.query.dsl.functions</apiname> package
                        (eg. <apiname>AggregateFunctions</apiname>).</li>
                    <li>A <xref href="#java-n1ql/case">mini DSL for building CASE constructs</xref>
                        via factory methods on the <apiname>Case</apiname> class.</li>
                    <li>A <xref href="#java-n1ql/collections">mini DSL for building collection
                            constructs</xref> (ANY, EVERY, ARRAY...) via factory methods on the
                            <apiname>Collections</apiname> class.</li>
                    <li>Index management (index and primary index creation/deletion/deferred
                        building) with <apiname>Index</apiname> factory methods as an entry
                        point.</li>
                    <li>Data modification with <apiname>Insert</apiname>, <apiname>Update</apiname>,
                            <apiname>Upsert</apiname> and <apiname>Delete</apiname> as entry
                        points.</li>
                </ul></p>
            <p>To construct statements, you can use the <apiname>Expression</apiname> class that
                comes in with a variety of factory methods to construct both tokens and literals
                programmatically. Expressions can be combined and chained with operators (like
                    <apiname>gte</apiname> for "greater than or equal to" comparison). </p>
            <p>Use <apiname>x</apiname> to construct a token, <apiname>s</apiname> to construct a
                string literal, <apiname>i</apiname> to construct a token escaped with backticks
                (for example, the bucket name <codeph>beer-sample</codeph> must be escaped because
                it contains a dash). </p>
            <p>If you find out that the DSL doesn't support a particular statement, clause or
                keyword, <b>you can always revert to providing your statement in plain String
                    form</b>. Using the String form ensures that even if the DSL lags behind the
                evolutions of the language, users will always have a mean of using new language
                features. </p>
        </section>



        <section><title>Querying Asynchronously</title>
            <p>To perform a query asynchronously, use the <apiname>AsyncBucket</apiname> interface
                that you obtain by calling <apiname>bucket.async()</apiname>. The API is pretty
                similar except everything is returned as an <apiname>Observable</apiname>. Some of
                the components of the query result (an <apiname>AsyncQueryResult</apiname>) can also
                be delayed and so returned as Observables. Only <apiname>requestId</apiname>,
                    <apiname>clientContextId</apiname> and <apiname>parseSuccess</apiname> return
                immediately. </p>
            <p>
                The following Java 8 code prints the found documents or errors as they come:
            </p>
<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[bucket.async()
    .query(select("*").from(i("beer-sample")).limit(10))
    .flatMap(result ->
        result.errors()
        .flatMap(e -> Observable.<AsyncN1qlQueryRow>error(new CouchbaseException("N1QL Error/Warning: " + e)))
        .switchIfEmpty(result.rows())
    )
    .map(AsyncN1qlQueryRow::value)
    .subscribe(
        rowContent -> System.out.println(rowContent),
        runtimeError -> runtimeError.printStackTrace()
    );]]></codeblock>
            <p>First, you can see that asynchronous mode was used. </p>
            <p>Second, line issues a <apiname>Statement</apiname> using the DSL (notice how
                "beer-sample" is escaped). </p>
            <p>When receiving a result, first check if there are errors. If there are any, the first
                one is converted to a <apiname>CouchbaseException</apiname> that will be propagated
                in the <apiname>Observable</apiname>. If no errors are found
                    (<apiname>errors()</apiname> is empty), switch to inspecting the rows, then map
                each received row to its JSON value. </p>
            <p>Eventually, trigger the whole process by subscribing to the
                    <apiname>Observable</apiname> you have built. When a row JSON is received, print
                it; when an error is propagated, print the stack trace. </p>
            <p>
                <i>Note: All this is done asynchronously so it's not suitable for a simple test
                    (where the main thread would potentially exit before any result could have been
                    displayed).</i>
            </p>
        </section>



        <section id="case">
            <title>Conditionals, Case Expressions Mini DSL</title>
            <p>The <apiname>com.couchbase.client.java.query.dsl.functions.Case</apiname> class
                contains a mini-DSL to deal with Conditional operators in N1QL of the
                    <codeph>CASE</codeph> family. </p>
            <p>The <codeph>Simple CASE</codeph> expression is defined as: </p>
<codeblock outputclass="language-sql"><![CDATA[CASE expression  ( WHEN expression THEN expression)
[ ( WHEN expression THEN expression) ]*
[  ELSE expression ]  END]]></codeblock>
            <p>The <codeph>Searched CASE</codeph> expression is defined as: </p>
<codeblock outputclass="language-sql"><![CDATA[CASE  ( WHEN  condition THEN expression)
[( WHEN  condition THEN expression ) ]*
[ ELSE  expression ] END ]]></codeblock>
            <p>The corresponding mini-DSL are <apiname>Case.caseSimple</apiname> and
                    <apiname>Case.caseSearch</apiname>. Simple Case will compare the initial
                expression with each <codeph>WHEN</codeph> clause for equality, returning the
                corresponding <codeph>THEN</codeph> expression if a match is found. Search Case
                allows for a different condition for each <codeph>WHEN</codeph> clause. </p>
            <p>Let's see two examples. The first one could be used to map match results to a score: </p>
<codeblock outputclass="language-sql"><![CDATA[CASE hist.result WHEN "won" THEN 1 ELSE 0 END]]></codeblock>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[//import static com.couchbase.client.java.query.dsl.Expression.*;
//import static com.couchbase.client.java.query.dsl.functions.Case.*;

caseSimple(x("hist.result"))
    .when(s("won")).then(x(1))
    .elseReturn(x(0))]]></codeblock>

            <p>The second example implements more complex scoring rule using a Search Case (first
                match of the day counts as 5 points if won): </p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-sql"><![CDATA[CASE WHEN hist.result = "won" AND hist.matchNumber = 1 THEN 5
WHEN hist.result = "won" THEN 1
WHEN hist.result = "lost" THEN 0
END]]></codeblock>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[//import static com.couchbase.client.java.query.dsl.Expression.*;
//import static com.couchbase.client.java.query.dsl.functions.Case.*;

caseSearch()
    .when(x("hist.result").eq(s("won")).and(x("hist.matchNumber").eq(1))).then(x(5))
    .when(x("hist.result").eq(s("won"))).then(x(1))
    .when(x("hist.result").eq(s("lost"))).then(x(0))
    .end(); //no ELSE clause means other values will return NULL, have to explicitly close the CASE]]></codeblock>
        </section>



        <section id="collections">
            <title>Collection Operators Mini DSL</title>
            <p>The <apiname>com.couchbase.client.java.query.dsl.functions.Collections</apiname>
                class contains a mini-DSL to deal with Collections operators in N1QL, such as
                    <codeph>ANY</codeph>, <codeph>EVERY</codeph>, <codeph>ARRAY</codeph> and
                    <codeph>FIRST</codeph>. </p>
            <p>
                For example, the <codeph>ARRAY</codeph> construct is defined as:
            </p>
<codeblock outputclass="language-sql"><![CDATA[ARRAY expression FOR variable ( IN |  WITHIN ) expression
[ ,  variable ( IN | WITHIN ) expression ]* [ ( WHEN  condition) ] END ]]></codeblock>
            <p>The corresponding mini-DSL is <apiname>Collections.arrayIn</apiname> (or
                    <apiname>Collections.arrayWithin</apiname> if you want to start with a
                    <codeph>WITHIN</codeph> clause). Let's see two examples from the following
                statement, which extracts children and also lists the ones that are "teenagers": </p>
<codeblock outputclass="language-sql"><![CDATA[SELECT tutorial.fname || ' ' || tutorial.lname AS adult,
    ARRAY child FOR child IN tutorial.children END AS children,
    ARRAY child.fname FOR child IN tutorial.children WHEN child.age >= 12 END AS teenagers
FROM tutorial WHERE tutorial.children IS NOT NULL;]]></codeblock>
            <p>Here is how to write the second and third lines using the DSL: </p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[//import static com.couchbase.client.java.query.dsl.Expression.*;
//import static com.couchbase.client.java.query.dsl.functions.Collections.*;

//ARRAY child FOR child IN tutorial.children END AS children
arrayIn(x("child"), "child", path("tutorial", "children")).end().as("children");

//ARRAY child.fname FOR child IN tutorial.children WHEN child.age >= 12 END AS teenagers
arrayIn(path("child", "fname"), "child", path("tutorial", "children")).when(path("child", "age").gte(12)).as("teenagers"));]]></codeblock>

            <p>Similarly, <codeph>ANY</codeph> allows to test for a condition that applies to at
                least one member of a nested array (you can also match on <codeph>EVERY</codeph>
                member of the array). <codeph>ANY</codeph> is defined as: </p>
<codeblock outputclass="language-sql"><![CDATA[ANY variable ( IN  | WITHIN ) expression
[  ,  variable ( IN | WITHIN ) expression  ]*
SATISFIES condition  END]]></codeblock>
            <p>In the previous example, you would see an entry for a parent that doesn't have
                "teenagers" (its "teenagers" field would be empty), because the statement didn't
                specify that the children should contain a "teenager". You can fix that with
                    <codeph>ANY</codeph>, by rewriting the <codeph>WHERE</codeph> clause: </p>
<codeblock outputclass="language-sql"><![CDATA[#...FROM tutorial
#replace "WHERE tutorial.children IS NOT NULL" with:
WHERE ANY child IN tutorial.children SATISFIES child.age >= 12;]]></codeblock>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[//import static com.couchbase.client.java.query.dsl.Expression.*;
//import static com.couchbase.client.java.query.dsl.functions.Collections.*;

anyIn("child", x("tutorial.children")).satisfies(x("child.age").gte(12))]]></codeblock>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
