<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="java-sample-app-backend">
  <title>Java Sample App backend tutorial</title>
  <titlealts><navtitle>Sample App backend in Java</navtitle></titlealts>
  <shortdesc>The Java SDK tutorial bridges the gap between simple and advanced concepts by walking through a complete web application.</shortdesc>
    <body>

        <section>
            <p>The full source code for the tutorial is available <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-java/" scope="external"
                    format="html">on GitHub couchbaselabs/try-cb-Java</xref>.
                The primary focus of the tutorial is to explain the
                function and theory behind the Couchbase Java client and how it works together with Couchbase Server, and especially new features in versions 4.0/4.5 like <codeph>N1QL</codeph>, <codeph>FTS</codeph> and <codeph>sub-document</codeph>. It makes use of the <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> data set. The code that generates the web application is provided with the source code,
                but is not discussed in this tutorial.
            </p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Specific Java prerequisites and set up</title>
            <p>In addition to the prerequisites mentioned in the <xref
                    href="../sample-application.dita"/>, you'll also need: <ul>
                    <li>Your favourite IDE with a JDK 1.6+ installed (this tutorial assumes IntelliJ
                        with JDK 1.8)</li>
                    <li>Maven 3</li>
                    <li>That's it!</li>
                </ul></p>
            <p>To get set up for the tutorial, follow these steps: <ul>
                    <li><codeph>git clone https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-java.git</codeph>
                        or <xref
                            href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-java/releases/tag/v2.0.0"
                            format="zip" scope="external">download the source</xref>
                    </li>
                    <li>if your Couchbase Server is not running on <codeph>localhost</codeph> you
                        can update the configuration's hostname in
                            <codeph>src/main/resources/application.properties</codeph></li>
                    <li>open the project in your IDE, import as needed and let it build</li>
                    <li>alternatively, go straight to running the project by executing the following
                        command in a terminal from inside the project's root directory: <codeph>mvn
                            spring-boot:run</codeph></li>
                </ul></p>
            <note type="note"> If you want to code it yourself, the real work is done in the
                following files: <ul>
                    <li><xref
                            href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-java/blob/master/src/main/java/trycb/config/Database.java"
                            format="html" scope="external"
                                ><codeph>src/main/java/trycb/config/Database.java</codeph></xref></li>
                    <li><xref
                            href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-java/blob/master/src/main/java/trycb/service/Airport.java"
                            format="html" scope="external"
                                ><codeph>src/main/java/trycb/service/Airport.java</codeph></xref></li>
                    <li><xref
                            href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-java/blob/master/src/main/java/trycb/service/FlightPath.java"
                            format="html" scope="external"
                                ><codeph>src/main/java/trycb/service/FlightPath.java</codeph></xref></li>
                    <li><xref
                            href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-java/blob/master/src/main/java/trycb/service/User.java"
                            format="html" scope="external"
                                ><codeph>src/main/java/trycb/service/User.java</codeph></xref></li>
                    <li><xref
                            href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-java/blob/master/src/main/java/trycb/service/Hotel.java"
                            format="html" scope="external"
                                ><codeph>src/main/java/trycb/service/Hotel.java</codeph></xref></li>
                </ul><p>There's currently no "fill-in-the-blanks" branch so you'll have to delete
                    method bodies and try to take it from there.</p></note>

            <note type="tip"> This tutorial focuses on querying through N1QL and FTS rather than
                mapreduce views. If you want information about using views, see the following
                resources: <ul>
                    <li>General Information about views: <xref
                            href="../../architecture/incremental-map-reduce-views.dita"/>
                    </li>
                    <li>Querying views:<xref
                            href="../../indexes/querying-using-map-reduce-views.dita"/></li>
                </ul></note>
    </section>
        <section>
	    <title>Walking Through the API</title>
	    <p>The following sections lead you through the primary functions of the sample application.
                This shows you how to use the various features and services of Couchbase including:
                    <b>connecting</b> to a cluster and bucket, <b>key/value</b> interactions,
                document <b>query through N1QL</b> and <b>full text searches</b>.</p>
	</section>
        <section>
            <title>Configure and Bootstrap the SDK</title><p><b>Where</b>: <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-java/blob/master/src/main/java/trycb/config/Database.java"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                        ><codeph>src/main/java/trycb/config/Database.java</codeph></xref></p><p><b>Goals</b>:
                Connecting to a <codeph>Cluster</codeph>, getting a reference to a
                    <codeph>Bucket</codeph> and learning to reuse it.</p><p><b>Relevant
                    Documentation Topics</b>: <xref href="managing-connections.dita"/></p><p>The
                first step is to let the application connect to your cluster and obtain a reference
                to a <codeph>Bucket</codeph> (this is your entry point for the whole storage API).
                Spring Boot automatically configures a <codeph>Cluster</codeph> using the
                    <codeph>@autowired</codeph> keyword by looking for the following properties in
                    <codeph>src/main/resources/application.properties</codeph>:<ul
                    id="ul_lhj_n4y_5y">
                    <li>spring.couchbase.bootstrap-hosts</li>
                    <li>spring.couchbase.bootstrap.bucket.name</li>
                    <li>spring.couchbase.bootstrap.bucket.password</li>
                </ul></p><p>Note that both <codeph>Cluster</codeph> and <codeph>Bucket</codeph> are
                thread safe and <b>must</b> be reused across your application (if you don't, you'll
                see a warning in the logs). Spring already knows the <codeph>Cluster</codeph> is a
                singleton because it's <codeph>@autowired</codeph> and the <codeph>Bucket</codeph>
                can be set up with the <codeph>@Bean</codeph> keyword so that it will also be
                managed as a singleton in the application.</p>
            <b>Connecting to the Cluster</b>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[public @Bean Cluster cluster() {
    return CouchbaseCluster.create(hostname);
}]]></codeblock><p>The <codeph>cluster()</codeph> method creates the bean for the cluster reference.
                Here the application uses one of the simpler factory methods, with just a hostname.
                Without a <codeph>hostname</codeph>, the default is to connect to
                    <codeph>localhost</codeph>. Note that you can tune the SDK through a
                    <codeph>CouchbaseEnvironment</codeph> instance; you can pass this in as an
                additional first argument. This is particularly recommended if you need to connect
                to multiple clusters in the same application. </p><note type="tip">You could make
                the bootstrap process safer by providing a list of hostnames/IPs to bootstrap from
                (in case the one node you provided for bootstrap is unfortunately down when creating
                the <codeph>Cluster</codeph> reference). It is recommended for production
                deployments that at least 3 hostnames/IPs are used.</note>
            <b>Getting a Bucket</b>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[public @Bean Bucket bucket() {
    return cluster().openBucket(bucket, password);
}]]></codeblock><p>The second step is to connect to the Couchbase bucket you'll be using. Here the
                application uses sample data from <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> (and the
                    <codeph>application.properties</codeph> configuration reflects that). To obtain
                the corresponding <codeph>Bucket</codeph> from the <codeph>Cluster</codeph> and
                register it as a <codeph>@Bean</codeph> in <codeph>bucket()</codeph> method, simply
                open it using the configured <codeph>bucket</codeph> name and
                    <codeph>password</codeph>. </p><p>Both the bucket and cluster can be managed
                through the SDK as well (e.g. add views or create new buckets), see <xref
                    href="managing-clusters.dita"/> for more information. </p><p>With these steps,
                the application is ready to use the API. In the next step, the Key/Value (KV)
                storage part of the API will be covered.  </p></section>

        <section>
            <title>Manage Users using Key/Value API</title><p><b>Where</b>: <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-java/blob/master/src/main/java/trycb/service/User.java"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                        ><codeph>src/main/java/trycb/service/User.java</codeph></xref></p><p><b>Goals</b>:
                Use <codeph>Bucket</codeph>'s Key/Value operations and discover the
                    <codeph>Document</codeph> API.</p><p><b>Relevant Documentation Topics</b>: <xref
                    href="document-operations.dita"/>, <xref href="async-programming.dita"
                /></p><p>Couchbase Server is a document oriented database which provides access to
                your data both through a document ID (for high performance access), as well as
                through views and N1QL (as powerful query languages).</p><p>This is noticeable in
                the API, where the methods reflect Key/Value operations (<codeph>get</codeph>,
                    <codeph>create</codeph>, etc) and work with a <codeph>Document</codeph>
                interface that has an <codeph>id()</codeph> and a content. The default Document
                implementation, <codeph>JsonDocument</codeph>, accepts a simple representation of
                JSON as a content using <codeph>JsonObject</codeph>. </p><note type="tip"> If you
                already have mechanisms in place to deal with marshalling/unmarshalling of your
                domain objects to/from JSON, you can skip the extra step of converting them to
                    <codeph>JsonObject</codeph> and use a <codeph>RawJsonDocument</codeph>
                instead.</note><b>Creating New Users</b>
            <p>Since this is a <codeph>@Service</codeph>, the <codeph>createLogin</codeph> method
                will be used by the REST API and return a <codeph>Result</codeph> object. This is a
                standardized wrapper for results returned by this application, that the frontend can
                interpret. This particular result will contain a <codeph>Map&lt;String,
                    Object&gt;</codeph> with some more information about the user just created.
                Spring injects the Bucket reference for us, along with the request parameters
                    <codeph>username</codeph> and <codeph>password</codeph>: </p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[/**
 * Create a user.
 */
public Result<Map<String, Object>> createLogin(final Bucket bucket, final String username, final String password,   int expiry) {
]]></codeblock><p>Next the application will prepare the content for the new user (as a JsonObject)
                and the associated document (in order to give it an ID) and it will also set the
                document expiry, if one was provided: </p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[String passHash = BCrypt.hashpw(password, BCrypt.gensalt());
JsonObject data = JsonObject.create()
    .put("type", "user")
    .put("name", username)
    .put("password", passHash);
JsonDocument doc;
if (expiry > 0) {
    doc = JsonDocument.create("user::" + username, expiry, data);
} else {
    doc = JsonDocument.create("user::" + username, data);
}]]></codeblock><note type="tip"> The <codeph>"user::"</codeph> prefix is arbitrary to this
                application, this is just a convention that the app uses to obtain unique keys and
                have additional information in it, but the key could have been anything else (even
                sequence numbers or UUIDs).</note><p>Here comes the part where the application use
                the Couchbase Server API to store the document, it's rather simple:
                </p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[bucket.insert(doc);]]></codeblock><p>Actually,
                the application should send a response with the content and a success flag to the
                HTTP client. It should also indicate failure if the SDK throws an exception, so it
                wraps that in a try-catch block: </p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[try {
    bucket.insert(doc);
    return Result.of(
            JsonObject.create().put("token", jwtService.buildToken(username)).toMap(),
            narration);
} catch (Exception e) {
    throw new AuthenticationServiceException("There was an error creating account");
}]]></codeblock><note type="tip">When it comes to storing a document, you have broadly three choices
                of method: <ul>
                    <li><codeph>insert()</codeph> will only work if no document currently exists for
                        the given ID, otherwise a <codeph>DocumentAlreadyExistsException</codeph>
                        will be thrown.</li>
                    <li><codeph>replace()</codeph> will only work if the document does already
                        exist, otherwise a <codeph>DocumentDoesNotExistException</codeph> is
                        thrown.</li>
                    <li><codeph>upsert()</codeph> will always work, replacing or creating the
                        document as needed.</li>
                </ul></note><p>So the result in fact just contains a JWT (Json WebToken) to identify
                the new user. If there is a problem, an
                    <codeph>AuthenticationServiceException</codeph> will be thrown and correctly
                translated by the controller layer. But what is this <codeph>narration</codeph>
                object in the Result?</p><p>The frontend understands this second part of the Result,
                the narration, as something that it can display in a console, so that users of the
                application can get an idea of what is going on, on the server side while browsing
                the app. It is similar to a log, but sent to the frontend.</p>
            <b>Checking Login by Getting the User's Document</b>
            <p>In the <codeph>login</codeph> method, the application checks a User's credential and
                for that it needs to retrieve the corresponding document. Since user documents are
                identified by prefixing their username with <codeph>user::</codeph>, this is pretty
                simple:
                </p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[JsonDocument doc = bucket.get("user::" + username);]]></codeblock><p>If
                that particular key doesn't exist, the <codeph>get</codeph> method returns
                    <codeph>null</codeph>. That's useful to check if the user exists: </p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[if (doc == null) {
    throw new AuthenticationCredentialsNotFoundException("Bad Username or Password");
}]]></codeblock><p>Otherwise it's just a matter of checking the hashed password with the one
                provided by the user, and responding accordingly. Notice how the application gets
                the hash by calling <codeph>content().getString("password")</codeph>: </p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[//...continued
} else if(BCrypt.checkpw(password, doc.content().getString("password"))) {
    return JsonObject.create()
        .put("token", jwtService.buildToken(username))
        .toMap();
} else {
    throw new AuthenticationCredentialsNotFoundException("Bad Username or Password");
}]]></codeblock>
            <b>A Quick Glance at the Async API with <codeph>RxJava</codeph></b>
            <p>The 2.x Java SDK relies on <xref href="http://reactivex.io/" scope="external"
                    format="html">RxJava</xref> for its asynchronous API. It offers a powerful way
                of composing asynchronous streams for your processing. The
                    <codeph>getFlightsForUser()</codeph> method can serve as a quick example of such
                an asynchronous call, it will return the result of a chain started with the async
                SDK call:
                </p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[bucket.async().get("user::" + username)]]></codeblock><p>RxJava's
                    <codeph>Observable</codeph> is a push model where you describe your stream (by
                composing and chaining rx operators) then subscribe to it (to consume the end data).
                You can also manage what to do with error notifications in the
                subscription.</p><p>The <codeph>async()</codeph> method on Bucket will switch to the
                async API. There, <codeph>get</codeph> will return an <codeph>Observable</codeph> in
                which the requested Document is emitted. </p><note type="note">If the requested key
                doesn't exist, the async API will instead result in an empty Observable and nothing
                will be emitted. See below for an example of how to deal with that particular
                case.</note><p>The next step in the chain is simply to extract the flight
                information that is needed and return it as a <codeph>List</codeph>. This is done by
                the transforming operator <codeph>map</codeph>. The application passes a function
                that will transform each emitted <codeph>JsonDocument</codeph> into a
                    <codeph>List&lt;Object&gt;</codeph>: </p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[.map(new Func1<JsonDocument, List<Object>>() {
     @Override
     public List<Object> call(JsonDocument doc) {
         JsonObject data = doc.content();
         JsonArray flights = data.getArray("flights");
         if (flights != null) {
             return flights.toList();
         } else {
             return Collections.emptyList();
         }
     }
 })]]></codeblock><p>In order to detect that the document doesn't exist, the application has to do
                things a bit differently since the <i>map</i> function won't receive a
                    <codeph>null</codeph> (it's the enclosing Observable stream that is empty).
                Fortunately, RxJava provides a method to emit a single default value if an upstream
                Observable is empty:
                </p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[.defaultIfEmpty(Collections.emptyList())]]></codeblock><p>Finally,
                since in this example the application still must exit the method by returning a
                value in a synchronous manner, it can revert to a blocking behaviour and say "we
                only expect a <codeph>single()</codeph> value to be emitted and wait for it to
                return it": </p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[.toBlocking()
.single();]]> </codeblock><note type="note">To learn more about Observables, see the <xref
                    href="async-programming.dita"/> section.</note></section>

        <section><title>A First N1QL Query: Finding Airports</title><p><b>Where</b>: <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-java/blob/master/src/main/java/trycb/service/Airport.java"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                        ><codeph>src/main/java/trycb/service/Airport.java</codeph></xref></p><p><b>Goals</b>:
                Use N1QL and the DSL to perform your first <codeph>SELECT</codeph> on Couchbase
                Server.</p><p><b>Relevant Documentation Topics</b>: <xref
                    href="n1ql-queries-with-sdk.dita"/>.</p><p>In the SDK, there is a
                    <codeph>query</codeph> method that accepts all variants of querying with
                Couchbase Server (views, spatial/geo views, N1QL and FTS). For N1QL, the
                    <codeph>N1qlQuery</codeph> is expected. This allows you to wrap a N1QL
                    <codeph>Statement</codeph>, provide query tuning through a
                    <codeph>N1qlParams</codeph> and if necessary provide values for placeholders in
                the statement as a <codeph>JsonObject</codeph> or <codeph>JsonArray</codeph>.
                </p><note type="tip">N1QL is a super-set of SQL, so if you're familiar with SQL
                you'll feel at ease.</note><p>Statements can be provided either in String form or
                using the DSL.</p><p>The <codeph>findAll</codeph> method is expected to return a
                    <codeph>List</codeph> (several matching rows) of <codeph>Map</codeph>s
                representing the JSON value. Once again, it is to be wrapped in a
                    <codeph>Result</codeph> to standardize the JSON representation for the frontend.
                Spring will inject the <codeph>bucket</codeph> into it and the
                    <codeph>params</codeph> attribute from the HTTP request. From that the
                application will start building a <codeph>Statement</codeph>: </p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[/**
 * Find all airports.
 */
public static Result<List<Map<String, Object>>> findAll(final Bucket bucket, final String params) {
    Statement query;
//continued...]]></codeblock><p>The application needs to select just the airport name from relevant
                documents in the bucket. Since it wants to filter relevant document on a criteria
                that depends on the input length, the query starts with "SELECT airportname FROM
                `travel-sample`".</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[AsPath prefix = select("airportname").from(i(bucket.name()));]]></codeblock>Then
            it can choose the correct fields to look into depending on the length of the input.
            Notice the <codeph>x()</codeph> method that produces a token/expression from a string.
            From there you can apply operators like <codeph>eq()</codeph> (equals). <codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[if (params.length() == 3) {
    query = prefix.where(x("faa").eq(s(params.toUpperCase())));
} else if (params.length() == 4 && (params.equals(params.toUpperCase()) || params.equals(params.toLowerCase()))) {
    query = prefix.where(x("icao").eq(s(params.toUpperCase())));
} else {
    query = prefix.where(i("airportname").like(s(params + "%")));
}]]></codeblock><note type="tip">Use <b>static</b> imports on these methods of the
                    <codeph>Expression</codeph> class: <ul>
                    <li><codeph>x</codeph> to create an <codeph>Expression</codeph> representing a
                        plain token, like a field.</li>
                    <li><codeph>s</codeph> to create a string literal (with appropriate
                        quotes).</li>
                    <li><codeph>i</codeph> to escape a token with back ticks (for instance when
                        refering to the travel-sample bucket, you need to escape it because
                        otherwise N1QL will interpret the dash as a subtraction operator).</li>
                </ul></note><p>The statement is ready! You can view (and log it) via its
                    <codeph>toString()</codeph> method: </p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[logQuery(query.toString());
//query.toString() example: SELECT airportname FROM `travel-sample` WHERE faa = "LAX"]]></codeblock><p>Then
                the application needs to actually execute this statement by wrapping it in a
                    <codeph>N1qlQuery</codeph> and invoking <codeph>bucket.query()</codeph>. Here is
                a very simple query with no placeholders and no particular tuning of the query is
                necessary, so we'll use the <codeph>N1qlQuery.simple()</codeph> factory method: </p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[N1qlQueryResult result = bucket.query(N1qlQuery.simple(query));
List<Map<String, Object>> data = extractResultOrThrow(result);]]></codeblock><p>By looking at
                    <codeph>extractResultOrThrow</codeph>, you can understand the structure of the
                N1QL response (as represented by <codeph>N1qlQueryResult</codeph>): </p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[/**
 * Extract a N1Ql result or throw if there is an issue.
 */
private static List<Map<String, Object>> extractResultOrThrow(N1qlQueryResult result) {
    if (!result.finalSuccess()) {
        LOGGER.warn("Query returned with errors: " + result.errors());
        throw new DataRetrievalFailureException("Query error: " + result.errors());
    }

    List<Map<String, Object>> content = new ArrayList<Map<String, Object>>();
    for (N1qlQueryRow row : result) {
        content.add(row.value().toMap());
    }
    return content;
}]]></codeblock><p>The <codeph>N1qlQueryResult</codeph> has two status flags: one intermediary
                    <codeph>parseSuccess()</codeph> that indicates immediately if there is a syntax
                error (<codeph>parseSuccess() == false</codeph>) or not, and one that indicates the
                definite result of the query (<codeph>finalSuccess()</codeph>). </p><p>If the query
                is successful, it will offer a list of <codeph>N1qlQueryRow</codeph> through
                    <codeph>allRows()</codeph>. Otherwise it will have <codeph>JsonObject</codeph>
                errors in <codeph>errors()</codeph>. That's what the application inspects to
                respectively build a list of results or throw a
                    <codeph>DataRetrievalFailureException</codeph> containing all the errors.
                </p><p>After is has extracted the rows, it once again packages them into a
                    <codeph>Result</codeph>, augmented with the exact statement the application
                executed as a
            narration:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[return Result.of(data, query.toString());]]></codeblock></section>

        <section>
            <title>More Complex Queries: Finding Routes</title>
            <p><b>Where</b>: <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-java/blob/master/src/main/java/trycb/service/FlightPath.java"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                        ><codeph>src/main/java/trycb/service/FlightPath.java</codeph></xref></p>
            <p><b>Goals</b>: Let the DSL guide you into making more complex N1QL queries.</p>
            <p><b>Relevant Documentation Topics</b>: <xref href="n1ql-queries-with-sdk.dita"/>.</p>
            <p>In this class, there are two more complex queries. The first aims at transforming the
                human-readable airport name for the departure and arrival airports to FAA codes:</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-sql">SELECT faa AS fromAirport FROM `travel-sample` WHERE airportname = "Los Angeles Intl"
  UNION SELECT faa AS toAirport FROM `travel-sample` WHERE airportname = "San Francisco Intl"</codeblock>
            <p>The second aims at constructing the result set of available flight paths that connect
                the two airports: </p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-sql">SELECT a.name, s.flight, s.utc, r.sourceairport, r.destinationairport, r.equipment
  FROM `travel-sample` AS r
  UNNEST r.schedule AS s
  JOIN `travel-sample` AS a ON KEYS r.airlineid
  WHERE r.sourceairport = "LAX" AND r.destinationairport = "SFO" AND s.day = 6
  ORDER BY a.name ASC</codeblock>
            <note type="tip"> Yes, you read that right, N1QL can do joins (on a single bucket or on
                several). It works as long as the "foreign key" described by <codeph>ON
                    KEYS</codeph> clause can be mapped to a document's key in the joined bucket. </note>
            <p>A specificity of N1QL that can be seen in the second statement is
                    <codeph>UNNEST</codeph>. It extracts a sub-JSON and puts it at the same root
                level as the bucket (so its possible to do joins on each element in this sub-JSON as
                if they were entries in a left-hand side bucket). </p>
            <p>For this final step, try to obtain the equivalent of these statements via the DSL and
                see how it guides you through the possibilities of the query language. </p>
        </section>


        <section>
            <title>Indexing the Data: N1QL &amp; GSI</title>
            <p><b>Where</b>: <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-java/blob/master/src/main/java/trycb/utils/StartupPreparations.java"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                        ><codeph>src/main/java/trycb/utils/StartupPreparations.java</codeph></xref></p>
            <p><b>Goals</b>: Use the Index DSL to make sure data is indexed for N1QL to query it.</p>
            <p>Index management is a bit more advanced (and is already done when loading the
                sample), so now that you've learned about N1QL, you can have a look at it. For N1QL
                to work, you must first ensure that at least a <codeph>Primary Index</codeph> has
                been created. For that you can use the DSL from the <codeph>Index</codeph> class: </p>
<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Index.createPrimaryIndex().on(bucket.name())]]></codeblock>
            <p>The fluent API will guide you with the available options, you just have to declare
                that you want to <codeph>createPrimaryIndex()</codeph> and specify
                    <codeph>on(...)</codeph> which Bucket. </p>
            <p>You can also create secondary indexes on specific fields of the JSON, for better
                performance: </p>
<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Index.createIndex(name).on(bucket.name(), x(name.replace("def_", "")))]]></codeblock>
            <p>In this case, give a name to your index, specify the target bucket AND the field(s)
                in the JSON to index. </p>
        </section>
        <section><title>Full Text Search: Finding Hotels</title><p><b>Where</b>: <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-java/blob/master/src/main/java/trycb/service/Hotel.java"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                        ><codeph>src/mainjava/trycb/service/Hotel.java</codeph></xref></p><p><b>Goals</b>:
                Use FTS to search for matching Hotels and use subdoc API to fetch the relevant data
                for each result.</p><p><b>Relevant Documentation Topics</b>: <xref
                    href="full-text-searching-with-sdk.dita"/>, <xref
                    href="../subdocument-operations.dita"/>.</p>In this service, hotels are searched
            for using more fuzzy criterias, like the content of the address or the description of an
            hotel. This is done using Full Text Search (FTS). When some results match the specified
            criteria, only the relevant data for each result to be displayed in the UI is fetched
            using the subdocument API. <p>The <codeph>findHotels</codeph> method accepts two
                parameters, <codeph>location</codeph> and <codeph>description</codeph>, which are
                the two possible refining criteria for an hotel search.</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[public Result findHotels(final String location, final String description) {
    ConjunctionQuery fts = SearchQuery.conjuncts(SearchQuery.term("hotel").field("type"));]]></codeblock><p>A
                    <codeph>ConjunctionQuery</codeph> allows to combine multiple FTS queries into
                one, in an AND fashion. That search always includes an exact match criteria that
                restricts it to the <codeph>hotel</codeph> data type (as reflected in the
                    <codeph>type</codeph> field of the JSON document).</p><p>If the user provided a
                location keyword, a second component is added to the FTS query that will look for
                that keyword in several address-related fields of the document. That is done in an
                OR fashion, using a <codeph>Disjunction</codeph> this time:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[if (location != null && !location.isEmpty() && !"*".equals(location)) {
    fts.and(SearchQuery.disjuncts(
                SearchQuery.matchPhrase(location).field("country"),
                SearchQuery.matchPhrase(location).field("city"),
                SearchQuery.matchPhrase(location).field("state"),
                SearchQuery.matchPhrase(location).field("address")
        ));
}]]></codeblock><p>Similarly, if a description keyword was provided by the user, the application
                look at the freeform text <codeph>description</codeph> field and
                    <codeph>name</codeph> fields of the document:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[if (description != null && !description.isEmpty() && !"*".equals(description)) {
    fts.and(
        SearchQuery.disjuncts(
                SearchQuery.matchPhrase(description).field("description"),
                SearchQuery.matchPhrase(description).field("name")
        ));
}]]></codeblock><p>The <codeph>matchPhrase</codeph> FTS query can contain several words and will
                search for variations of the words (e.g. including plural forms or words with the
                same root).</p><p>The compound FTS query is now ready to be executed. The
                application builds a <codeph>SearchQuery</codeph> object out of it, which also
                determines which FTS index to use ("hotels") and allows you to set various
                parameters (like a limit of maximum 100 hits to return). The query is logged (and
                kept for narration) then executed, returning a <codeph>SearchQueryResult</codeph>
                object:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[SearchQuery query = new SearchQuery("hotels", fts)
    .limit(100);
logQuery(query.export().toString());
SearchQueryResult result = bucket.query(query);]]></codeblock>The FTS results are then iterated
            over, and the document corresponding to each result is fetched. In actuality, only the
            parts of the document that will be displayed in the UI are required. This is where the
            sub-document API comes in.<p>The sub-document API allows you to fetch or mutate only a
                set of paths inside a JSON document, without having to send the whole document back
                and forth. This can save network bandwidth if the document is large and the parts
                that the application is interested in are small. So here the results of the FTS
                search are iterated over and appropriate subdoc calls are triggered:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[for (SearchQueryRow row : result) {
    DocumentFragment<Lookup> fragment = bucket
            .lookupIn(row.id())
            .get("country")
            .get("city")
            .get("state")
            .get("address")
            .get("name")
            .get("description")
            .execute();]]></codeblock><p>Each FTS result is represented as a
                    <codeph>SearchQueryRow</codeph> which exposes the document's
                    <codeph>id()</codeph>. The application can use the sub-document API dedicated to
                fetching data (<codeph>bucket.lookupIn(documentId)</codeph>) and specify what parts
                it wants: country, city, state, address, name and description. It can then
                    <codeph>execute()</codeph> the sub-document specification. In the rest of the
                code, the address-related fields are aggregated together and the data obtained is
                returned as a <codeph>List&lt;Map&lt;String, Object&gt;&gt;</codeph>.</p><p>Back in
                the <codeph>findHotels</codeph> method, the application artificially prepares a
                narration that reflects the subdocument specification and returns the list of data
                wrapped in a <codeph>Result</codeph> with two narration elements: the FTS query that
                was executed and the subdocument specification.</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[String ftsContext = ftsContext = query.export().toString();
String subdocContext = "DocumentFragment<Lookup> fragment = bucket\n" +
"                    .lookupIn(row.id())\n" +
"                    .get(\"country\")\n" +
"                    .get(\"city\")\n" +
"                    .get(\"state\")\n" +
"                    .get(\"address\")\n" +
"                    .get(\"name\")\n" +
"                    .get(\"description\")\n" +
"                    .execute();";

return Result.of(extractResultOrThrow(result), ftsContext, subdocContext);]]></codeblock></section>
    </body>
</topic>
