<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="java-views">
    <title>MapReduce Views</title>
    <shortdesc>You can use MapReduce views to create queryable indexes in Couchbase Server.</shortdesc>
    <body>
        <section conref="../shared/views.dita#toplevel/views-intro"/>
        <section conref="../shared/views.dita#toplevel/example-beer"/>
        <section conref="../shared/views.dita#toplevel/example-geo-travel"/>
        <section><title>Querying Views through the Java SDK</title>
            <p>Query a view through the Java client through the <codeph>query(ViewQuery q)</codeph>
                method on the <apiname>Bucket</apiname> class. This method returns a
                <apiname>ViewResult</apiname> whose iterator yields the results of the query (in the
                form of <apiname>ViewRow</apiname> objects). The <apiname>ViewResult</apiname> also
                exposes the list of rows (<codeph>allRows()</codeph>), the <codeph>success()</codeph>
                status and potential <codeph>error()</codeph>. The <apiname>ViewRow</apiname> object
                contains the <codeph>key</codeph> and <codeph>value</codeph> properties (which are the
                first and second arguments to the view's <codeph>emit()</codeph> function, respectively)
                as well as the <codeph>id</codeph> property, which may be passed to the
                <apiname>get()</apiname> method to return the actual document. Alternatively,
                directly call the <apiname>document()</apiname> method on the view row. </p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-java">Bucket bkt = CouchbaseCluster.create("192.168.33.101").openBucket("beer-sample");
                ViewResult result = bkt.query(ViewQuery.from("beer", "by_name");
                for (ViewRow row : result) {
                System.out.println(row); //prints the row
                System.out.println(row.document().content()); //retrieves the doc and prints content
                }</codeblock>

            <p>You can also set various properties on the query:</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-java">Bucket bkt = CouchbaseCluster.create("192.168.33.101").openBucket("beer-sample");
                ViewQuery q = ViewQuery.from("beer", "by_name")
                limit(5) // Limit to 5 results
                .startKey("A")
                .endKey("A\u0fff");

                ViewResult result = bkt.query(q);
                for (ViewRow row : result) {
                System.out.println(row);
                }</codeblock>
            <p>Here's some sample output for the previous query:</p>
            <codeblock>DefaultViewRow{id=harvey_son_lewes-a_lecoq_imperial_extra_double_stout_1999, key=A. LeCoq Imperial Extra Double Stout 1999, value=null}
                DefaultViewRow{id=harvey_son_lewes-a_lecoq_imperial_extra_double_stout_2000, key=A. LeCoq Imperial Extra Double Stout 2000, value=null}
                DefaultViewRow{id=mickey_finn_s_brewery-abana_amber_ale, key=Abana Amber Ale, value=null}
                DefaultViewRow{id=brasserie_lefebvre-abbaye_de_floreffe_double, key=Abbaye de Floreffe Double, value=null}
                DefaultViewRow{id=brasserie_de_brunehaut-abbaye_de_saint_martin_blonde, key=Abbaye de Saint-Martin Blonde, value=null}</codeblock>

            <note type="tip"><parmname>includeDocs</parmname>: This parameter allows for eager retrieval of the document associated
                with each row.
                <p>It is only beneficial in the synchronous API (in the async API you could just call <codeph>get(row.id())</codeph>
                    on the async bucket with the same effects). It impacts the row's <codeph>document(...)</codeph> method by
                    preloading the return value of said method.</p>
                <p>However, since the simple signature of <codeph>row.document()</codeph> assumes a <codeph>JsonDocument</codeph>,
                    if you want a different document type you have to call both <codeph>includeDocs()</codeph> and
                    <codeph>document()</codeph> with the desired target class:
                    <codeph>query.includeDocs(SomeDocumentClass.class)</codeph> <b>and</b>
                    <codeph>row.document(SomeDocumentClass.class)</codeph>.</p>
                <p>Note that the <codeph>ViewQuery</codeph> has a getter for the target class:
                    <codeph>includeDocsTarget()</codeph>.</p>
            </note>
        </section>
        <section><title>Querying Geospatial Views</title>

            <p>To query a geospatial view, you will need to construct a <apiname>SpatialViewQuery</apiname> object
                (<apiname>com.couchbase.client.java.view.SpatialViewQuery</apiname>). Spatial queries accept a
                <parmname>startRange</parmname> and an <parmname>endRange</parmname> parameter which allow you to limit the
                enclosing bounding boxes of the result. The arguments to these parameters are <apiname>JsonArray</apiname> with
                each element corresponding to a component emitted by the key (the first two components implicitly being the
                longitude and latitude of the result itself).</p>
            <p>On output, spatial queries yield instances of <apiname>SpatialViewRow</apiname> classes. A
                <apiname>SpatialViewRow</apiname> is similar to a <apiname>ViewRow</apiname>, with an added
                <codeph>geometry</codeph> property.</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-java" spectitle="Querying a spatial view">SpatialViewQuery q = SpatialViewQuery.from("spatial", "by_location")
                .startRange(JsonArray.from(0, -90, null))
                .endRange(JsonArray.from(180, 90, null));
                SpatialViewResult result = bkt.query(q);

                for (SpatialViewRow row : result) {
                System.out.println("Key:" + row.key());
                System.out.println("Value:" + row.value());
                System.out.println("Geometry:" + row.geometry());
                }</codeblock>
            <p><apiname>SpatialView</apiname> also has the <apiname>includeDocs()</apiname>
                parameter to preload the document for the <apiname>SpatialViewRow</apiname>'s
                <apiname>document()</apiname> method.</p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>View results details</title>
            <p>For all types of views, a <codeph>ViewResult</codeph> is always returned, which
                contains zero to many <codeph>ViewRows</codeph>. In addition to iterative row access,
                more methods are available on the result:</p>

            <table>
                <tgroup cols="2">
                    <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
                    <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.94*"/>
                    <thead>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Method</entry>
                            <entry>Description</entry>
                        </row>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>List&lt;ViewRow&gt; allRows()</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Accumulates all returned rows in a List and returns it.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>Iterator&lt;ViewRow&gt; rows()</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Provides iterative access to rows as they arrive.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>int totalRows()</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>The total number of rows in the index can be greater than the
                                number of <codeph>rows()</codeph> returned.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>boolean success()</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>True if the query was successful, false otherwise. Check
                                    <codeph>error()</codeph> if so.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>JsonObject error()</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Contains the error if the query was not successful or null
                                otherwise.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>JsonObject debug()</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Contains debug information if <codeph>debug()</codeph> was
                                enabled on the query, null otherwise.</entry>
                        </row>
                    </tbody>
                </tgroup>
            </table>

            <p>The only difference between regular and spatial view results is the fact that spatial ones do not expose the number of <codeph>totalRows</codeph>.</p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>ViewQuery API details</title>
            <p>All options shown here are available on the <codeph>ViewQuery</codeph> in a fluent
                API manner. All of them are optional, so only when they are explicitly provided,
                they will alter the behavior of the query.</p>

            <p>As a general note, all arguments that accept JSON are provided with a higher number
				of method overloads to accommodate all combinations in a type-safe manner.</p>

            <table>
                <tgroup cols="3">
                    <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
                    <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.39*"/>
                    <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="2.61*"/>
                    <thead>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Method</entry>
                            <entry>Accepted Types</entry>
                            <entry>Description</entry>
                        </row>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>development</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>boolean</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>When true queries the development view, false by default.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>reduce</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>boolean</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Explicitly enables/disables the reduce function on the query. If
                                not provided and the view has a reduce function, it will be
                                used.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>limit</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>int</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Limits the number of the returned documents to the specified
                                number.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>skip</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>int</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Skips the given number of records before starting to return the
                                results.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>group</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>boolean</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Groups the results using the reduce function to a group or single
                                row.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>groupLevel</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>int</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Specifies the group level to be used.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>inclusiveEnd</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>boolean</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Whether the specified end key should be included in the
                                result.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>stale</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>Stale.TRUE, Stale.FALSE, Stale.UPDATE_AFTER
                                    (default)</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Defines how stale the view results are allowed to be in the
                                query.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>debug</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>boolean</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Enabled debugging on view queries.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>onError</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>OnError.STOP (default), OnError.CONTINUE</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Sets the response in the event of an error.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>descending</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>boolean</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Returns the documents in descending order by key if
                                    <codeph>true</codeph>, default is
                                <codeph>false</codeph>.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>key</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>JSON</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>The exact key to return from the query.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>keys</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>JsonArray</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Only the given matching keys will be returned.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>startKeyDocId</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>String</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Where to start searching for the key range. Can be used for
                                efficient pagination.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>endKeyDocId</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>String</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Where to stop searching for the key range.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>startKey</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>JSON</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>The key where the row return range should start.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>endKey</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>JSON</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>The key where the row return range should end.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>includeDocs</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>boolean</codeph>, optional <codeph>Class&lt;? extends
                                    Document&gt;</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Wether or not to automatically fetch the document corresponding
                                to each row. The second parameter is the target class for the
                                document, <codeph>JsonDocument</codeph> if omitted. <p>This method
                                    is needed only when using the blocking API since on the async
                                    API there is no benefit over just calling
                                        <apiname>.document()</apiname> in the stream. </p><p>See
                                    note on <codeph>includeDocs</codeph> below.</p></entry>
                        </row>
                    </tbody>
                </tgroup>
            </table>

            <p><note><b>Important when using Grouping:</b>
                    <codeph>group(boolean)</codeph> and <codeph>groupLevel(int)</codeph> should not
                    be used together in the same view query. It is sufficient only to set the
                    grouping level only and use this setter in cases where you always want the
                    highest group level implicitly.</note></p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>SpatialViewQuery API details</title>
            <p>All options shown here are available on the <codeph>SpatialViewQuery</codeph> in a
                fluent API manner. All of them are optional, so only when they are explicitly
                provided, they will alter the behaviour of the query.</p>

            <table>
                <tgroup cols="3">
                    <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
                    <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.47*"/>
                    <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="2.45*"/>
                    <thead>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Method</entry>
                            <entry>Accepted Types</entry>
                            <entry>Description</entry>
                        </row>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>development</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>boolean</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>When true queries the development view, false by default.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>limit</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>int</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Limits the number of the returned documents to the specified
                                number.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>skip</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>int</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Skips the given number of records before starting to return the
                                results.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>stale</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>Stale.TRUE, Stale.FALSE, Stale.UPDATE_AFTER
                                    (default)</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Defines how stale the view results are allowed to be on
                                query.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>debug</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>boolean</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Enabled debugging on view queries.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>onError</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>OnError.STOP (default), OnError.CONTINUE</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Sets the response in the event of an error.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>startRange</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>JsonArray</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Where the spatial range should start. Can be
                                multidimensional.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>endRange</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>JsonArray</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Where the spatial range should end. Can be
                                multidimensional.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>range</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>JsonArray, JsonArray</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Convenience method to combine start and endrange in one
                                argument.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>includeDocs</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>boolean</codeph>, optional <codeph>Class&lt;? extends
                                    Document&gt;></codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Weather or not to automatically fetch the document corresponding
                                to each row. The second parameter is the target class for the
                                document, <codeph>JsonDocument</codeph> if omitted. <p>This method
                                    is needed only when using the blocking API since on the async
                                    API there is no benefit over just calling
                                        <apiname>.document()</apiname> in the stream. </p><p>See
                                    note on <codeph>includeDocs</codeph> below.</p></entry>
                        </row>
                    </tbody>
                </tgroup>
            </table>
            <p>Here is how to use the <codeph>range</codeph> parameter to find documents with a location within a bounding box. We have stored cities Paris, Vienna, Berlin and New York. Each city's coordinates is represented as two attributes, <codeph>lon</codeph> and <codeph>lat</codeph>. The spatial view's map function is:</p>
<codeblock outputclass="language-javascript"><![CDATA[function (doc) { if (doc.type == "city") { emit([doc.lon, doc.lat], null); } }]]></codeblock>

            <p>To query the view and find cities within Europe, we use Europe's bouding box. The startRange is the most south-western point of the bounding box, the endRange is its most north-eastern point:</p>
<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[JsonArray EUROPE_SOUTH_WEST = JsonArray.from(-10.8, 36.59);
JsonArray EUROPE_NORTH_EAST = JsonArray.from(31.6, 70.67);

SpatialViewResult result = bucket.query(SpatialViewQuery.from("cities", "by_location")
            .stale(Stale.FALSE)
            .range(EUROPE_SOUTH_WEST, EUROPE_NORTH_EAST));
List<SpatialViewRow> allRows = result.allRows();

for (SpatialViewRow row : allRows) {
    System.out.println(row.id());
}

//prints:
//city::Vienna
//city::Berlin
//city::Paris]]></codeblock>
        </section>


        <section id="retry">
            <title>Retry Conditions</title>
            <p>SDK retries view requests automatically on certain known conditions, which represented in the following table:</p>
            <table>
                <tgroup cols="2">
                    <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
                    <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.56*"/>
                    <thead>
                        <row>
                            <entry>HTTP status code</entry>
                            <entry>Behavior</entry>
                        </row>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                        <row>
                            <entry>200</entry>
                            <entry>Do not retry request.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>300, 301, 302, 303, 307, 401, 408, 409, 412, 416, 417, 501, 502,
                                503, 504</entry>
                            <entry>Retry request.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>404</entry>
                            <entry>In case the library detects yet unprovisioned node, it will
                                retry. Otherwise, it will report
                                    <codeph>ViewDoesNotExistException</codeph>.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>500</entry>
                            <entry>If the error payload reports missing view document or badly
                                formed query, it will not retry. Otherwise, it will retry
                                request.</entry>
                        </row>
                    </tbody>
                </tgroup>
            </table>
            <p>All codes not listed in the table will not be retried by default.
                But the client code still can use retrying framework or write a custom handler. In the example below,
                it will retry 10 times if the view does not exist:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[
bucket.query(SpatialViewQuery.from("spatial", "test"))
      .retryWhen(
           RetryBuilder.anyOf(ViewDoesNotExistException.class)
                       .delay(Delay.exponential(TimeUnit.SECONDS, 1))
                       .max(10)
                       .build())
      .subscribe(new Action1<AsyncSpatialViewResult>() {
          @Override
          public void call(AsyncSpatialViewResult result) {
              // handle result
          }
      });
]]></codeblock>
        </section>
	</body>
</topic>
