<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_unj_jhq_dt">
 <title>Physical Data Modeling</title>
 <shortdesc>The physical data model takes the logical data model and maps the entities and relationships to physical containers.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>In Couchbase Server, items are used to store associated values that can be accessed with a unique key. Couchbase Server also provides buckets to group items. Based on the access patterns, performance requirements, and atomicity and consistency requirements, you can choose which type of containers to use to represent your logical data model. </p>
  <p>The data representation and containment in Couchbase Server is drastically different from
   relational databases. The following table provides a high level comparison to help you get
   familiar with Couchbase Server containers. <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1"
    id="table_tjc_k3q_dt">
    <title>Data representation and containment in Couchbase Server versus relational
     databases</title>
    <tgroup cols="2">
     <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
     <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
     <thead>
      <row>
       <entry>Couchbase Server</entry>
       <entry>Relational databases</entry>
      </row>
     </thead>
     <tbody>
      <row>
       <entry>Buckets</entry>
       <entry>Databases</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>Buckets or Items (with type designator attribute)</entry>
       <entry>Tables</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>Items (key-value or document)</entry>
       <entry>Rows</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>Index</entry>
       <entry>Index</entry>
      </row>
     </tbody>
    </tgroup>
   </table></p>
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Items</dt>
    <dd>Items consist of a key and a value. A key is a unique identifier within the bucket. Value can be a binary or a JSON document. You can mix binary and JSON values inside a bucket. <ul>
     <li><b>Keys</b> 
      <p>Each value (binary or JSON) is identified by a unique key. The key is typically a surrogate key generated using a counter or a UUID generator. Keys are immutable. Thus, if you use composite or compound keys, ensure that you use attributes that don’t change over time. </p></li>
     <li><b>Values</b><ul>
      <li><b>Binary values</b>: Binary values can be used for high performance access to compact data through keys. Encrypted secrets, IoT instrument measurements, proplarity session states, or other not-human-readable data are typical cases for binary data. However, using binary values limits the functionality your application can take advantage of, ruling out indexing and querying in Couchbase Server as binary values have a proprietary representation.
      </li>
      <li><b>JSON values</b>: JSON provides rich representation for entities. Couchbase Server can
         parse, index and query JSON values. JSON provide a name and a value for each attribute. You
         can find the JSON definition at <xref href="https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7159"
          format="html" scope="external">RFC 7159</xref> or at <xref
          href="http://www.ecma-international.org/publications/files/ECMA-ST/ECMA-404.pdf"
          format="pdf" scope="external">ECMA 404</xref>. <p>JSON document attributes can represent
          both basic types such as number, string, Boolean, and complex types including embedded
          documents and arrays. In the examples below, a1 and a2 represent an attribute that has a
          numeric and string value respectively, a3 represents an embedded document, and a4
          represents an array of embedded documents.
          <codeblock>{
        “a1”: number,
        “a2”: “string”,
        “a3”: {
        “b1”:[number,number,number]
        },
        “a4”: [
        {“c1”:”string”, “c2”:number},
        {“c1”:”string”, “c2”:number}
        ]
        }</codeblock></p><p>The
          powerful range of representations enabled by JSON in Couchbase Server documents allows
          developers the utmost flexibility in modeling their entities and relationships.</p></li>
     </ul></li>
    </ul></dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Buckets</dt>
    <dd>Couchbase Server also provides a container called a bucket to group items. Buckets are
     primarily used to control resource allocation and to define security and storage properties.
     For data with differing caching and RAM quota needs, compaction requirements, availability
     requirements and IO priorities, buckets act as the control boundary. <p>For example, you choose
      to create 1 replica for medical-codes data that contain drug, symptom and operation codes for
      a standard based electronic health record. This data can be recovered easily from other
      sources, so a single replica may be fine. However, patient data may require higher protection
      with 2 replicas. To achieve better protection for patient data without wasting additional
      space for medical-codes you could choose separate buckets for these 2 types of
      information.</p> It is important to note that buckets can mix binary and document-based items.
     All keys within the bucket need to be unique regardless of the value type (binary or JSON
     document). </dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
 </conbody>
</concept>
