<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic9764">
  <title>Views</title>
  <shortdesc>The Views section allows you to manage your development and production
    views.</shortdesc>
  <body>
 <p>You can access the View section in two ways:</p>
     <ul>
       <li>Click <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Data Buckets</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Views</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>, or</li>
       <li>Select the <wintitle>Views</wintitle> tab on the main Couchbase Web Console panel. </li>
     </ul> 
    
    
    <p>The individual elements of this interface are:</p>
    
  <dl>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>Dropdown list on the top left</dt>
      <dd>Allows you to select the data bucket to view.</dd>
    </dlentry>
  </dl>  
    
  <dl>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>Create Development Spatial View</dt>
      <dd>Enables you to create a new spatial function either within the
        current design document or a new document.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>Create Development View</dt>
      <dd>Enables you to create a new view either within the
        current design document or a new document.</dd>
      <dd>You can switch between Production Views and Development
        Views.</dd>
    </dlentry>
  </dl>  
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Views screen</dt>
        <dd>The final section provides a list of the design documents and each defined view within each
          document.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
 
    
    <section><title>Development views</title> When viewing <wintitle>Development Views</wintitle>,
      you can perform the following actions: <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Compact</dt>
          <dd>Compact the view index with an associated design document. This action compacts the
            view index and recovers space used to store the view index on the disk. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl><dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Delete</dt>
          <dd>Delete a design document. This action deletes all of the views defined within the
            design document. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl><dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Add View</dt>
          <dd><wintitle>Add View</wintitle> creates a new view for the corresponding design
            document. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl><dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Publish</dt>
          <dd>Publish your design document (and all of the defined views) as a production design
            document.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl><p>For each view listed, you can:</p><dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Edit</dt>
          <dd>Clicking on <wintitle>Edit</wintitle> or clicking the view name opens the view editor
            for the current view name.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl><dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Delete</dt>
          <dd>Deletes an individual view.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></section>
    
    <section><title>Production views</title> When viewing <wintitle>Production Views</wintitle> you
      can perform the following operations on each design document: <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Compact</dt>
          <dd>Compact the view index with an associated design document. This action will compact
            the view index and recover space used to store the view index on the disk. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl><dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Delete</dt>
          <dd>Delete a design document. This action will delete all of the views defined within the
            design document. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl><dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Copy to Dev</dt>
          <dd><wintitle>Copy to Dev</wintitle> copies the view definition to the development area of
            the view editor. This action enables you to edit the view definition. Once you have
            finished making changes, click the <uicontrol>Publish</uicontrol> button if you want to
            overwrite the existing view definition.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl><p>For each view, you can:</p><dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Show</dt>
          <dd>By clicking the view name or the <uicontrol>Show</uicontrol> button, execute and
            examine the results of a production view.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></section>   
 
  </body>
  
</topic>
