<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="clusters_and_availability">
  
  <title>
    Clusters and Availability
  </title>
  
  <shortdesc>
    One or more instances of Couchbase Server constitute a <i>cluster</i>, which replicates data across
    server-instances, and across clusters; and so ensures high availability.
  </shortdesc>
  
  <body>
    
    <section>
      
      <title>
        Clusters
      </title>
      
       <p>
         A Couchbase <i>cluster</i> consists of one or more instances of Couchbase Server, each
         running on an independent node. Data and services are shared across the cluster.
       </p>
      
        <p>
          When Couchbase Server is being configured on a node, it can be specified either as its
          own, new cluster, or as a participant in an existing cluster. Thus, once a cluster
          exists, successive nodes can be added to it; each node running Couchbase Server. When
          a cluster has multiple nodes, the Couchbase <i>Cluster Manager</i> runs on each node:
          this manages communications between nodes, and ensures that all nodes are healthy. The
          Cluster Manager provides information on the cluster to the user interface of
          <i>Couchbase Web Console</i>.
        </p>
      
        <p>
          Services can be configured to run on all or some nodes in a cluster. For example, given
          a cluster of five nodes, a small dataset might require the Data Service on only one of
          the nodes; a large on four or five. Alternatively, a heavy query workload might require the
          Query Service to run on multiple nodes, rather than just one. This ability to scale
          services individually promotes optimal hardware-resource utilization.
        </p>
      
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Availability
      </title>
 
        <p>
          Data is automatically distributed across a cluster by Couchbase Server: applications
          are not involved. Each defined bucket is stored by the Data Service as 1024
          <i>vBuckets</i> (virtual buckets), which are spread evenly across all
          available Data Service nodes. Documents are stored intact within vBuckets.
          vBuckets can also be <i>replicated</i>, across the cluster, by means of the
          <i>Database Change Protocol</i>; with each replica always existing
          on a node different from that of its original.
        </p>
      
        <p>
          Couchbase Server automatically handles the addition and removal of nodes, and the 
          failure of
          nodes; such that no data-loss occurs. vBuckets and their replicas are 
          redistributed across available nodes whenever a change of configuration
          is detected.
        </p>
      
        <p>
          <i>High</i> Availability is achieved by means of <i>Cross Datacenter Replication</i>
          (<i>XDCR</i>); whereby the contents of a bucket can be selectively replicated
          to a bucket maintained on a remote cluster. Additionally, <i>Server Group Awareness</i>
          allows <i>groups</i> of nodes to be defined, within the cluster, to protect the cluster
          against significant infrastructure-failure.
        </p>
      
    
    </section>
    
  </body>
  
</topic>
