<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="concept_xh5_l3j_vs2">
 
 <title>
  Connectivity
 </title>
 
 <shortdesc>
  Couchbase Server handles client to cluster, node to node, and cluster to cluster communications. It
  also provides connectivity to a number of third-party products.
 </shortdesc>
 
 <body>
  <section id="section-client-2-cluster-comm">
   
   <title>
    Client to Cluster
   </title> 
   
   <p>
    Client applications communicate with a Couchbase Server-cluster through a set of server-defined access-points,
    each of which provides ports for both clear and encrypted communication. 
   </p>
   
   <p> 
    The principal access-points for clients are as follows: 
   </p>
   
   <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_yph_ppc_ws">

    <tgroup cols="4">
     <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.4*"/>
     <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="0.6*"/>
     <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.0*"/>
     <colspec colname="c4" colnum="4" colwidth="1.3*"/>
     <thead>
      <row>
       <entry>Type</entry>
       <entry>Port</entry>
       <entry>API</entry>
       <entry>Description</entry>
      </row>
     </thead>
     <tbody>
      <row>
       <entry>REST</entry>
       <entry>8091, 18091 (SSL)</entry>
       <entry>REST API administrative operations</entry>
       <entry>Direct connection to a single node in the cluster, to perform administrative operations,
        monitoring, and alerting; by means of the
       <xref href="../../rest-api/rest-intro.dita" scope="local" format="dita">REST API</xref>.
       </entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>ONLINE</entry>
       <entry>11210, 11207 (SSL)</entry>
       <entry>Core Data operations</entry>
       <entry>Stateful connections from a client to cluster-nodes running the  
        <xref href="../services-and-indexes/services/data-service.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Data Service</xref> for
        CRUD operations.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>REST</entry>
       <entry>8093, 18093 (SSL)</entry>
       <entry>Query with N1QL API</entry>
       <entry>Load-balanced connection across cluster-nodes running the 
        <xref href="../services-and-indexes/services/query-service.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Query Service</xref> for
        <xref href="../../sdk/n1ql-query.dita" scope="local" format="dita">N1QL</xref> queries.</entry>
      </row>

      <row>
       <entry>REST</entry>
       <entry>8094, 18094 (SSL)</entry>
       <entry>Search Service</entry>
       <entry>Load-balanced connections across cluster-nodes running the 
        <xref href="../services-and-indexes/services/search-service.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Search Service</xref> for
        <xref href="../../fts/full-text-intro.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Full Text Search</xref> queries.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>REST</entry>
       <entry>8095, 18095 (SSL)</entry>
       <entry>Analytics Service</entry>
       <entry>Load-balanced connections across cluster-nodes running the 
        <xref href="../services-and-indexes/services/analytics-service.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Analytics Service</xref>.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>REST</entry>
       <entry>8092, 18092 (SSL)</entry>
       <entry>Query with View and Spatial View API</entry>
       <entry>Load-balanced connection across cluster-nodes running the 
        <xref href="../services-and-indexes/services/data-service.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Data Service</xref> for
        <xref href="../views/views-intro.dita" scope="local" format="dita">View</xref> queries.</entry>
      </row>
     </tbody>
    </tgroup>
   </table>
   
   <p>
     Note that the above table lists only a subset of Couchbase Server network ports. For a complete list, see 
    <xref href="../../install/install-ports.dita#topic2659"/>.
   </p>
   
  </section>
  
  <section>
   <title>
    Node to Node 
   </title> 
   
   Cluster-nodes intercommunicate in order to
   replicate data, maintain indexes, check the health of nodes, communicate changes to the
   cluster-configuration, and more. See
   <xref href="./cluster-manager.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Cluster Manager</xref>,
   for detailed information.

  </section>
  
  <section>
   
   <title>
    Cluster to Cluster 
   </title> 
   
   <p>
    Couchbase Server-clusters communicate
    with one another by means of <i>Cross Datacenter Replication</i> (XDCR). See
    <xref href="./replication-architecture.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Availability</xref>,
    for detailed information.
   </p>
   
  </section>  
  
  <section>
   
   <title>
    Cluster to Connector 
   </title> 
   
   <p>
    Couchbase Server-clusters communicate with third party products; by means of <i>connectors</i>.
    Connectors are provided for <i>Elasticsearch</i>, <i>Hadoop</i>, <i>Kafka</i>, <i>Spark</i>, and <i>Talend</i>. Drivers
    are provided for <i>ODBC</i> and <i>JDBC</i>. See
    <xref href="../../connectors/intro.dita" scope="local" format="dita"></xref>, for
    detailed information.
   </p>
   
  </section>
  
  <section id="connectivity-phases">
   
   <title>
    Connectivity Phases
   </title>
   
   <p>
    Client connectivity is established in three phases: <i>Authentication and Authorization</i>, <i>Discovery</i>, and 
    <i>Service Connection</i>.
   </p>
   
   <p>
    
   </p>
    
    <ol>
     
    <li>
     <i>Authentication and Authorization</i>: The client authenticates with <i>username</i> and <i>password</i>. If
     these are associated with a Couchbase-Server defined <i>role</i>, itself associated with appropriate
     privileges on the resource access to which is being requested, the client is authorized, and access is granted. Otherwise,
     access is denied. See
     <xref href="../../security/security-authorization.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Authorization</xref>
     for details.
     
     <p>
      
     </p>
    </li>
     
    <li>
     <i>Discovery</i>: A cluster-map is returned to the client. This indicates the current
     cluster-topology; including the list of nodes, the data-distribution across the nodes, and
     the service-distribution accross the nodes.
     
     <p>
      
     </p>
    </li>
     
    <li>
     <i>Service Connection</i>: Once in possession of the cluster-map, the client determines the 
     connections needed to establish and perform service-level operations. Additional
     authorizations may be required, depending on the operations being attempted. Note that in the event of
     topology-changes, a service connection-request may result in an exception; in which case discovery
     must be re-run, and operations retried with new connections.

      <p>
       
      </p>
    </li>
     
   </ol>
   
   
  </section>
 </body>
</topic>
