<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="cbstats-vbucket">
  <title><cmdname>vbucket</cmdname></title>
  <shortdesc>Provides detailed statistics on a per vbucket granularity.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <p>Request syntax for vBucket:</p>
      <codeblock>cbstats [host]:11210 vbucket
cbstats [host]:11210 vbucket-details [vbid]
cbstats [host]:11210 vbucket-seqno [vbid]     </codeblock>
   <p>These commands are used as follows:</p>
      <ul>
     <li><cmdname>vbucket</cmdname>: Lists all available vBuckets and provides information about
          their type: active, replica, pending or dead.</li>
     <li><cmdname>vbucket-details</cmdname>: Uses the option <codeph>vbid</codeph>  to provide
          statistics for a specific vBucket. </li>
        <li><cmdname>vbucket-seqno</cmdname>: Uses the option <codeph>vbid</codeph> to provide
          details connected to the vBucket's sequence number. </li>
   </ul>
    
    
    </section>
    <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>The <cmdname>vbucket</cmdname> command shows whether a vBucket is an active, replica,
        pending or dead vBucket.</p>
      
      <table><title>Notable vBucket-details stats</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2.17*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Stat</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>db_data_size</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Total size of useful data in the database file on disk, measured in
                bytes.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>db_file_size</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Total size of the database file on disk (including un-compacted stale data),
                measured in bytes.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>drift_ahead_threshold</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Threshold at which positive drift will trigger an update to
                drift_ahead_exceeded, measured in nanoseconds.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>drift_ahead_threshold_exceeded</codeph></entry>
              <entry>How many
                  mutations have been observed with a drift above the
                drift_ahead_threshold.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>drift_behind_threshold</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The threshold
                  at which positive drift will trigger an update to drift_behind_exceeded. The value
                  is displayed in nanoseconds as a positive value, but is converted to a negative
                  value for actual exception checks.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>drift_behind_threshold_exceeded</codeph></entry>
              <entry>How many
                  mutations have been observed with a drift below the
                drift_behind_threshold.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>logical_clock_ticks</codeph></entry>
              <entry>How many times
                  the hybrid logical clock has had to increment the logical clock.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>max_cas_str</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The vBucket’s
                  current maximum hybrid logical clock timestamp. In general, this statistic shows
                  the value issued to the last mutation or in certain cases the largest timestamp
                  the vBucket has received (when the received timestamp is ahead of the local
                  clock). Displayed as a human readable ISO-8601 timestamp (UTC).
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>num_items</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Total number of items in the vbucket.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>num_non_resident</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Total number of items which are not resident in memory for this
                vbucket.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>total_abs_drift</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Accumulated drift observed by the vBucket. Drift is always accumulated as an
                absolute value.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>total_abs_drift_count</codeph></entry>
              <entry>How many
                  updates have been applied to total_abs_drift, for the purpose of average or rate
                  calculations.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Options</title>
      <table><title>vbucket options</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Option</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>vbid</codeph></entry>
              <entry>vBucket ID (in a standard system this will be between 0 and 1023). If not
                provided as part of the command then details for all vBuckets are shown.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      
    </section>

    
    <section><title>Examples</title><b>Requests</b><codeblock>cbstats 192.0.2.1:11210 vbucket</codeblock><codeblock>cbstats 192.0.2.1:11210 vbucket-details 115</codeblock><codeblock>cbstats 192.0.2.1:11210 vbucket-seqno 115</codeblock><p><b>Responses</b></p><p>Example
        response for
        <codeph>vbucket</codeph>:</p><codeblock> vb_0:    replica
 vb_1:    replica
 vb_10:   replica
 vb_100:  active
 vb_1000: replica
 vb_1001: replica
 vb_1002: replica
 vb_1003: replica
 vb_1004: replica
 vb_1005: replica
 ...     </codeblock><p>Example
        response for <codeph>vbucket-details
        115</codeph>:</p><codeblock> vb_115:                                 active
 vb_115:bloom_filter:                    ENABLED
 vb_115:bloom_filter_key_count:          0
 vb_115:bloom_filter_size:               95851
 vb_115:db_data_size:                    28473
 vb_115:db_file_size:                    98395
 vb_115:drift_ahead_threshold:           5000000000
 vb_115:drift_ahead_threshold_exceeded:  0
 vb_115:drift_behind_threshold:          5000000000
 vb_115:drift_behind_threshold_exceeded: 0
 vb_115:high_seqno:                      31
 vb_115:ht_cache_size:                   44546
 vb_115:ht_item_memory:                  44546
 vb_115:ht_memory:                       26656
 vb_115:logical_clock_ticks:             9
 vb_115:max_cas:                         1484657322073980930
 vb_115:max_cas_str:                     2017-01-17T12:48:42.73980930
 vb_115:num_ejects:                      4
 vb_115:num_items:                       31
 vb_115:num_non_resident:                4
 vb_115:num_temp_items:                  0
 vb_115:ops_create:                      31
 vb_115:ops_delete:                      0
 vb_115:ops_reject:                      0
 vb_115:ops_update:                      0
 vb_115:pending_writes:                  0
 vb_115:purge_seqno:                     0
 vb_115:queue_age:                       0
 vb_115:queue_drain:                     32
 vb_115:queue_fill:                      32
 vb_115:queue_memory:                    0
 vb_115:queue_size:                      0
 vb_115:rollback_item_count:             0
 vb_115:total_abs_drift:                 0
 vb_115:total_abs_drift_count:           0
 vb_115:uuid:                            265143847629643     </codeblock><p>Example
        response for <codeph>vbucket-seqno
      115</codeph>:</p><codeblock> vb_115:abs_high_seqno:            31
 vb_115:high_seqno:                31
 vb_115:last_persisted_seqno:      31
 vb_115:last_persisted_snap_end:   31
 vb_115:last_persisted_snap_start: 31
 vb_115:purge_seqno:               0
 vb_115:uuid:                      265143847629643       </codeblock></section>
    
    
  </refbody>
</reference>
