<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="cbstats-tap">
	<title><cmdname>tap</cmdname></title>
	<shortdesc>Gets statistics associated with TAP.</shortdesc>
	<refbody>
		<section><title>Syntax</title>
			<p>Request syntax:</p>
			<codeblock>cbstats [host]:11210 tap
cbstats [host]:11210 tap-takeover vb name			</codeblock>
		</section>
		<section><title>Description</title>
			<p>TAP is an internal protocol that streams information about data changes between cluster nodes.
				Couchbase Server uses the TAP protocol during rebalance and replication at other
				cluster nodes.</p>
			
		</section>

		
	<section><title>TAP stats</title>
			
			
			<table>
				<title>TAP stats description</title>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
					<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2*"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Stat</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>ep_tap_ack_grace_period</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The amount of time to wait for a TAP acks before disconnecting.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>ep_tap_ack_interval</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The amount of messages a TAP producer should send before requesting an ack.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>ep_tap_ack_window_size</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The maximum amount of ack requests that can be sent before the consumer sends a
								response ack. When the window is full the TAP stream is
								paused.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>ep_tap_backoff_period</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The number of seconds the TAP connection should back off after receiving
								ETMPFAIL.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>ep_tap_bg_fetch_requeued</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of times a TAP background fetch task is requeued.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>ep_tap_bg_fetched</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of TAP disk fetches.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>ep_tap_bg_max_pending</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The maximum number of background jobs a TAP connection may have.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>ep_tap_count</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of TAP connections.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>ep_tap_deletes</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of TAP deletion messages sent.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>ep_tap_fg_fetched</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of TAP memory fetches.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>ep_tap_noop_interval</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The number of secs between a noop is added to an idle connection.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>ep_tap_queue_backfillremaining</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of items to be backfilled.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>ep_tap_queue_backoff</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Total back-off items.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>ep_tap_queue_drain</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Total drained items.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>ep_tap_queue_fill</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Total enqueued items.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>ep_tap_queue_itemondisk</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of items remaining on disk.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>ep_tap_throttle_queue_cap</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Disk write queue cap to throttle tap streams.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>ep_tap_throttle_threshold</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Percentage of memory in use before we throttle tap streams.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>ep_tap_throttled</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of TAP messages refused due to throttling.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>ep_tap_total_backlog_size</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of remaining items for replication.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>ep_tap_total_fetched</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Sum of all TAP messages sent.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>ep_tap_total_queue</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Sum of TAP queue sizes on the current TAP queues.</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
		</section>

		<section><title>Per TAP client stats</title>
			
			<p>Each stat begins with ep_TAPq followed by a unique <codeph>/client_id/</codeph> and another
				colon. For example, if your client is named <codeph>slave1</codeph>, the qlen stat
				would be <codeph>ep_TAPq:slave1:qlen</codeph>.</p>
			<table>
				<tgroup cols="3">
					<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
					<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2*"/>
					<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="1*"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Stat</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
							<entry>P/C</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>type</entry>
							<entry>The kind of TAP connection (producer or consumer).</entry>
							<entry>PC</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>created</entry>
							<entry>Creation time for the TAP connection.</entry>
							<entry>PC</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>supports_ack</entry>
							<entry><codeph>true</codeph>  if the connection use acks.</entry>
							<entry>PC</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>connected</entry>
							<entry><codeph>true</codeph>  if this client is connected.</entry>
							<entry>PC</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>disconnects</entry>
							<entry>Number of disconnects from this client.</entry>
							<entry>PC</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>reserved</entry>
							<entry><codeph>true</codeph>  if the TAP stream is reserved.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>suspended</entry>
							<entry><codeph>true</codeph>  if the TAP stream is suspended.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>qlen</entry>
							<entry>Queue size for the given client_id.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>qlen_high_pri</entry>
							<entry>High priority TAP queue items.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>qlen_low_pri</entry>
							<entry>Low priority TAP queue items.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>vb_filters</entry>
							<entry>Size of connection vbucket filter set.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>vb_filter</entry>
							<entry>The content of the vbucket filter.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>rec_fetched</entry>
							<entry>Tap messages sent to the client</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>rec_skipped</entry>
							<entry>Number of messages skipped due to TAP reconnect with a different filter.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>idle</entry>
							<entry><codeph>true</codeph>  if this connection is idle.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>has_queued_item</entry>
							<entry><codeph>true</codeph>  if there are any remaining items from a hash table or a
								disk.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>bg_result_size</entry>
							<entry>Number of ready background results.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>bg_jobs_issued</entry>
							<entry>Number of background jobs started.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>bg_jobs_completed</entry>
							<entry>Number of background jobs completed.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>flags</entry>
							<entry>Connection flags set by the client.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>pending_disconnect</entry>
							<entry><codeph>true</codeph> if we’re hanging up on this client.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>paused</entry>
							<entry><codeph>true</codeph> if this client is blocked.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>pending_backfill</entry>
							<entry><codeph>true</codeph> if we’re still backfilling keys for this connection.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>pending_disk_backfill</entry>
							<entry><codeph>true</codeph> if we’re still backfilling keys from disk for this
								connection.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>backfill_completed</entry>
							<entry><codeph>true</codeph> if all items from backfill is successfully transmitted to the
								client.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>backfill_start_timestamp</entry>
							<entry>Timestamp of backfill start.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>reconnects</entry>
							<entry>Number of reconnects from this client.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>backfill_age</entry>
							<entry>The age of the start of the backfill.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>ack_seqno</entry>
							<entry>The current TAP ACK sequence number.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>recv_ack_seqno</entry>
							<entry>Last receive TAP ACK sequence number.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>ack_log_size</entry>
							<entry>Tap ACK backlog size.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>ack_window_full</entry>
							<entry><codeph>true</codeph> if our TAP ACK window is full.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>seqno_ack_requested</entry>
							<entry>The <codeph>seqno</codeph> of the <cmdname>ack</cmdname> message
								that the producer wants to get a response for.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>expires</entry>
							<entry>When this ACK backlog expires.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>queue_memory</entry>
							<entry>Memory used for TAP queue.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>queue_fill</entry>
							<entry>Total queued items.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>queue_drain</entry>
							<entry>Total drained items.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>queue_backoff</entry>
							<entry>Total back-off items.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>queue_backfillremaining</entry>
							<entry>Number of backfill remaining.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>queue_itemondisk</entry>
							<entry>Number of items remaining on disk.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>total_backlog_size</entry>
							<entry>Num of remaining items for replication.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>total_noops</entry>
							<entry>Number of NOOP messages sent.</entry>
							<entry>P</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>num_checkpoint_end</entry>
							<entry>Number of chkpoint end operations.</entry>
							<entry>C</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>num_checkpoint_end_failed</entry>
							<entry>Number of chkpoint end operations failed.</entry>
							<entry>C</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>num_checkpoint_start</entry>
							<entry>Number of chkpoint end operations.</entry>
							<entry>C</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>num_checkpoint_start_failed</entry>
							<entry>Number of chkpoint end operations failed.</entry>
							<entry>C</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>num_delete</entry>
							<entry>Number of delete operations.</entry>
							<entry>C</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>num_delete_failed</entry>
							<entry>Number of failed delete operations.</entry>
							<entry>C</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>num_flush</entry>
							<entry>Number of flush operations.</entry>
							<entry>C</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>num_flush_failed</entry>
							<entry>Number of failed flush operations.</entry>
							<entry>C</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>num_mutation</entry>
							<entry>Number of mutation operations.</entry>
							<entry>C</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>num_mutation_failed</entry>
							<entry>Number of failed mutation operations.</entry>
							<entry>C</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>num_opaque</entry>
							<entry>Number of opaque operation.</entry>
							<entry>C</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>num_opaque_failed</entry>
							<entry>Number of failed opaque operations.</entry>
							<entry>C</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>num_vbucket_set</entry>
							<entry>Number of vbucket set operations.</entry>
							<entry>C</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>num_vbucket_set_failed</entry>
							<entry>Number of failed vbucket set operations.</entry>
							<entry>C</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>num_unknown</entry>
							<entry>Number of unknown operations.</entry>
							<entry>C</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table></section>
		
		<section><title>Options</title>
			<p>None</p>
			
		</section>	
		
		<section><title>Example</title>
			
				<p><b>Request for TAP stats:</b></p>
				<codeblock>cbstats [host]:11210 tap</codeblock>
<p><b>Response</b></p>
				<p>Response example for TAP stats</p>
				<codeblock> ep_tap_ack_grace_period:        300
 ep_tap_ack_interval:            1000
 ep_tap_ack_window_size:         10
 ep_tap_backoff_period:          5
 ep_tap_bg_fetch_requeued:       0
 ep_tap_bg_fetched:              0
 ep_tap_bg_max_pending:          500
 ep_tap_count:                   0
 ep_tap_deletes:                 0
 ep_tap_fg_fetched:              0
 ep_tap_noop_interval:           20
 ep_tap_queue_backfillremaining: 0
 ep_tap_queue_backoff:           0
 ep_tap_queue_drain:             0
 ep_tap_queue_fill:              0
 ep_tap_queue_itemondisk:        0
 ep_tap_throttle_queue_cap:      1000000
 ep_tap_throttle_threshold:      90
 ep_tap_throttled:               0
 ep_tap_total_backlog_size:      0
 ep_tap_total_fetched:           0
 ep_tap_total_queue:             0
			</codeblock>
				
		</section>
		
		
	</refbody>
</reference>
