<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="cbstats-checkpoint">
	
	<title><cmdname>checkpoint</cmdname></title>
	<shortdesc>Provides detailed information on per-vBucket checkpoint data structure.</shortdesc>
	<refbody>
		<section><title>Syntax</title>
			<p>Request syntax:</p>
			<codeblock>cbstats <varname>host</varname>:11210 [common options] checkpoint</codeblock>
		</section>
		<section><title>Description</title>


			<p>This command provides detailed information on per-vBucket checkpoint data structure.</p>
			<note type="note">Requesting checkpoint stats impacts the performance and should not be used
				frequently.</note>

      <p>The identifier for each vBucket statistic begins with the string <codeph>vb_</codeph> followed by 
      the vBucket ID and a colon.</p>
			
			
	<table>
		<title>cbstats checkpoint values</title>
		<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
					<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2.19*"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Stat</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph><varname>cursor_name</varname>:cursor_checkpoint_id</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Checkpoint ID at which the cursor <varname>cursor_name</varname> is pointing now.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph><varname>cursor_name</varname>:cursor_seqno</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The seqno at which the cursor <varname>cursor_name</varname> is pointing now.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph><varname>cursor_name</varname>:num_visits</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of times a batch of items have been drained from a checkpoint of <varname>cursor_name</varname>.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph><varname>cursor_name</varname>:num_items_for_cursor</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of items remaining for the cursor <varname>cursor_name</varname>.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>open_checkpoint_id</codeph></entry>
							<entry>ID of the current open checkpoint.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>num_conn_cursors</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of referencing DCP cursors.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>num_checkpoint_items</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of total items in a checkpoint data structure.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>num_open_checkpoint_items</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of items in the open checkpoint.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>num_checkpoints</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of checkpoints in a checkpoint data structure.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>num_items_for_persistence</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of items remaining for persistence.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>state</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The state of the vBucket for which this checkpoint contains data.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>last_closed_checkpoint_id</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The last closed checkpoint number.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>persisted_checkpoint_id</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The last persisted checkpoint number.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>mem_usage</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Total memory taken up by items in all checkpoints under given manager.</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
	</table>
			
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Options</title>
			<p>There are no options for this command. For common <cmdname>cbstats</cmdname> options, see <xref href="../cbstats-intro.dita#cbstats-intro"/>.</p>
		</section>
		
	
		
		<section><title>Example</title>
		
			<p><b>Request</b></p>
			<codeblock>cbstats localhost:11210 -u Administrator -p password -b beer-sample checkpoint</codeblock>
		
			<p><b>Response:</b></p>
			<codeblock>
 vb_0:last_closed_checkpoint_id:           4
 vb_0:mem_usage:                           121
 vb_0:num_checkpoint_items:                2
 vb_0:num_checkpoints:                     1
 vb_0:num_conn_cursors:                    1
 vb_0:num_items_for_persistence:           0
 vb_0:num_open_checkpoint_items:           0
 vb_0:open_checkpoint_id:                  5
 vb_0:persisted_checkpoint_id:             4
 vb_0:persistence:cursor_checkpoint_id:    5
 vb_0:persistence:cursor_seqno:            10
 vb_0:persistence:num_visits:              6
 vb_0:state:                               active
 ...
 vb_9:last_closed_checkpoint_id:           3
 vb_9:mem_usage:                           121
 vb_9:num_checkpoint_items:                2
 vb_9:num_checkpoints:                     1
 vb_9:num_conn_cursors:                    1
 vb_9:num_items_for_persistence:           0
 vb_9:num_open_checkpoint_items:           0
 vb_9:open_checkpoint_id:                  4
 vb_9:persisted_checkpoint_id:             3
 vb_9:persistence:cursor_checkpoint_id:    4
 vb_9:persistence:cursor_seqno:            6
 vb_9:persistence:num_visits:              6
 vb_9:state:                               active</codeblock>
		</section>
	</refbody>




</reference>
