<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="dotnet-contributing">
 <title>Contributing</title><shortdesc>Contributing to the .NET SDK.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>We welcome community contributions to the .NET SDK. The .<xref
   href="https://github.com/couchbase/couchbase-net-client" format="html"
   scope="external">NET SDK source code</xref> is available on GitHub.</p>
  
  
  <section>
   <title>GitHub</title>
   
   <p>All source code associated with the project lives in GitHub in the following repository:
    <xref href="https://github.com/couchbase/couchbase-net-client" format="html"
     scope="external">https://github.com/couchbase/couchbase-net-client</xref>. </p>
   <p>These are the current active branches in the GitHub repository:</p>
   <p>
    <ul>
     <li><xref href="https://github.com/couchbase/couchbase-net-client/tree/release13"
      format="html" scope="external">release13</xref>: development branch for
      version 1.x</li>
     <li><xref href="https://github.com/couchbase/couchbase-net-client/tree/master"
      format="html" scope="external">master</xref>: development branch for
      2.x</li>
    </ul>
   </p>
   <p>Submit pull requests to the appropriate branch based upon the version of the SDK that
    the submission is targeting.</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Contributor license agreement</title>
   <p>All pull requests must go through a review process before being merged into their
    respective branches on GitHub. A prerequisite for accepting a pull request is that
    the contributor has read and signed the Couchbase Contributor License Agreement
    (CLA). This can be done through Gerrit, our code review system.</p>
   <p>Gerrit is the official code review system for the Couchbase SDKs. Community members who want
    to contribute must create a Gerrit account and sign the CLA. The steps for doing this
    are as follows: </p>
   <p>
    <ol>
     <li>Navigate to <xref href="http://review.couchbase.org" format="html"
      scope="external">http://review.couchbase.org</xref>.</li>
     <li>From the menu at the top right-hand side of the page, select
      <uicontrol>Register</uicontrol>. </li>
     <li>Use a Google account, a Yahoo account, or any other <xref
      href="http://openid.net/get-an-openid/" format="html" scope="external"
      >OpenID</xref> account to register.</li>
     <li>After you have signed in you will be prompted to verify your email and provide a
      username.</li>
     <li>At the very bottom of the page, click <uicontrol>New Contributor Agreement</uicontrol> and
      follow the directions to sign the CLA.</li>
     <li>Click <uicontrol>Submit Agreement</uicontrol>.</li>
    </ol>
   </p>
   <p>After you have signed the CLA, it’s official, you can now contribute to the Couchbase .NET
    SDK!</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Code review process</title>
   <p>The typical flow of a community contribution is through a <xref
    href="https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests" format="html"
    scope="external">pull request</xref>. Locally, you <xref
     href="https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo" format="html" scope="external"
     >clone</xref> the GitHub repository, make your changes, and then <xref
      href="https://help.github.com/articles/pushing-to-a-remote" format="html"
      scope="external">push </xref>your changes to your fork of the repository. From
    your fork of the repository on GitHub, you create a pull request and submit it to the
    appropriate branch. The maintainer of the SDK decides whether to accept or deny the
    pull request. If the maintainer decides to accept the pull request, then they will
    push the pull request to <xref href="https://code.google.com/p/gerrit/" format="html"
     scope="external">Gerrit</xref>, the code review system used internally within
    Couchbase.</p>
   <p>Gerrit uses the concepts of <term>change sets</term> and <term>patch sets</term>. A change set
    is a submission under review, and a patch set is an amendment to that change set. </p>
   <p>After the submission has been pushed to Gerrit, it is reviewed by one or more Couchbase
    engineers. Very likely this will be the maintainer of the SDK. The reviewer may ask
    for several patch sets to be committed before approving a submission.</p>
   <p>Reviewers rank the change set with one of the following values:</p>
   <p>
    <ul>
     <li>+2 - Looks good to me, approved</li>
     <li>+1 - Looks good, but someone else must approve</li>
     <li> 0 - No score</li>
     <li>-1 - I would prefer you do not submit this</li>
     <li>-2 - Do not submit</li>
    </ul>
   </p>
   <p> Typically, only submissions ranked +2 are accepted.</p>
   <p>After the submission has made it through code review, it is pushed from Gerrit to GitHub by
    the SDK maintainer.</p>
  </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>

