<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_lln_jlg_1t">
 <title>Reactive asynchronous clients</title>
 <shortdesc>You can use non-blocking programming to better utilize application and network resources
		and gain overall higher I/O throughput.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>Applications can take full advantage of the network by becoming <i>asynchronous</i> or
				<i>non-blocking</i>. The asynchronous model can increase network throughput and make
			better use of local CPU and memory resources.</p>
        <p>Some Couchbase SDKs offer non-blocking extensions and APIs to interact with a Couchbase
            cluster.</p>
        <section>
            <title>Issues with synchronous (blocking) programming</title>
            <p>Most modern applications are I/O bound, that is, they spend most of their time
                waiting for a server to respond to a given request. In traditional <i>blocking</i>
                applications, the entire application is blocked (suspended) until data arrives from
                the network.</p>
            <p>If an application can parallelize its interaction with the network (for example, a
                data mining application which has multiple sources to analyze) it can run in less
                time because network resources are retrieved concurrently rather than in
                sequence.</p>
            <p>To implement network concurrency, some applications employ multiple threads: each
                thread being responsible for retrieving a single resource. While this approach may
                work for a small number of concurrent network operations, it quickly becomes
                unscalable if the number of resources to retrieve are numerous. Threads may also add
                additional maintenance overhead, as applications must ensure access to shared
                application resources are properly guarded and synchronized and sequential in an
                otherwise concurrent workload.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>The asynchronous (non-blocking) model</title>
            <p>Asynchronous (or non-blocking, or reactive) programming is a model in which
                applications are designed to schedule a given network operation and continue when
                this operation is completed. The application may perform other tasks while it is
                waiting for network I/O.</p>
            <p>A classic example of a reactive application is a GUI interface: the application is
				constructed with a main loop or an event loop that listens for input events (such as a
				button click, focus, or typing). The application installs handlers to react when a given
				event is received as a result of user input.</p>
            <p>If the GUI application needs to request something from the network, it may do so
					<i>synchronously</i>, but this would mean that the application is suspended (and will
				appear unresponsive as it cannot react to UI event). If the request is done
				asynchronously, the UI will continue to function and a handler may be called when the
				operation completes. The handler can process the information received from the network,
				for example, to update the contents of a browser.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Reactive applications</title>
            <p>Reactive applications are built around receiving <i>events</i>. An <i>event</i> is a
                notification that something has happened; this can be the receipt of a network
                transmission or access of a UI element.</p>
            <p>Events are generated by a component called a <i>reactor</i> or <i>event loop</i>.
                This component is responsible for delivering low-level events as generated by the
                network or operating system and delivering them to your application. Your
                application code is invoked by the reactor, and when your application code exits
                (for example, a function returns), control is given to the event loop so that it may
                continue processing events.</p>
            <p>An application must ensure that it does not <i>block</i> waiting for network I/O:
                When application code blocks waiting for the network, the entire process (or thread)
                is blocked, and the reactor is not able to deliver events which may be ready. As
                such, any network I/O must be done via the reactor.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Using the reactive model with Couchbase</title>
            <p>Some Couchbase SDKs allow  a reactive model in which applications may use this form
                of parallelism with Couchbase operations: Applications can schedule operations to be
                performed, and then supply those operations with <i>handlers</i> to be invoked when
                the operation is complete.</p>
            <p>An asynchronous application must be entirely non-blocking. This means that all
				components which interact with the network need to participate in the <term>event
					loop</term> or <i>reactor</i>. For example, if your application is also a web server,
				the web server must also receive requests and serve responses via the reactor. Most
				reactors feature built-in or third-party web servers and other forms of network service
				handlers and libraries.</p>
            <p>There are various asynchronous frameworks for different languages. Consult your SDK
                documentation to see available options for integration with a given framework.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>When to use the asynchronous/reactive model</title>
            <p>Asynchronous models are generally recommended for high-throughput, high volume
                applications. The asynchronous model is capable of handling several thousand
                concurrent I/O operations in a single thread.</p>
            <p>If your application is itself a server, and in addition to interacting with
                Couchbase, can also concurrently interact with other services, it is recommended to
                use the asynchronous programming model to greatly improve network throughput and
                conserve system resources.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>When to use the synchronous/blocking model</title>
            <p>Not all applications are suited for the asynchronous model. The asynchronous model
				introduces additional complexity in initial development and maintenance. Logically
				sequential logic may be fragmented into multiple functions because some steps require
				waiting for the network; and thus a function might need to be split into several
				parts—each interaction with the network requiring a different invocation as a
				handler.</p>
            <p>When application parallelism is at a small scale, and when different network
                operations are not related and do not require shared state, the use of multiple
                threads or processes may be acceptable.</p>
        </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
