<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_lg3_dhm_zs">
    <title>Command-line client</title>
    <conbody>
        <section><title>Installing the command line client (Linux)</title>The command line client
            (cbc, couchbase client) is part of the C SDK. The most common form of installation is
            via our software repositories, though it can also be built from source or downloaded
            directly. Installing on Linux We provide a simple Perl setup script which will
            automatically configure your system to use our software repositories. You can download
            and execute this script (as root or using
            sudo):<codeblock>$ wget http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/c/couchbase-csdk-setup
$ perl couchbase-csdk-setup</codeblock>The
            script will prompt you before each modification it makes. When done setting up the
            repository, it will install the C SDK (just a few simple libraries) and the command line
            tool. </section>
        <section><title>Installing on OS X</title>The <i>cbc</i> utility is available with the
                <i>libcouchbase</i> package. You can install it using the popular <i>homebrew</i>
            package manager for OS X:<codeblock>$ brew install libcouchbase</codeblock></section>
        <section>
            <title>Running the client</title>
            <p>The command line client contains sub-commands which perform various operations on the
                server. The simplest of these are:<ul id="ul_xn5_nhm_zs">
                    <li><codeph>cbc create</codeph> (create/update documents)</li>
                    <li><codeph>cbc cat</codeph> (retrieve a document)</li>
                    <li><codeph>cbc n1ql</codeph> (execute a query)</li>
                    <li><codeph>cbc rm</codeph> (remove a document).</li>
                </ul>To point the client at a cluster, simply provide one of the cluster nodes using
                the -U argument:</p>
            <screen>$ cbc cat document_id -U couchbase://10.0.0.31 </screen>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
