<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_fbg_xjm_zs">
 <title>Connecting</title>
 <shortdesc>Connecting your client SDK to a Couchbase cluster.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p><codeblock spectitle="Connecting to Couchbase, in pseudo code">client = (new Cluster(‘couchbase://node’)).openBucket(‘travel-sample’)
client = new Bucket(‘couchbase://node/bucket?option1=value1&amp;option2=value2’)
client = new Bucket(‘couchbase://node://bucket’, ‘bucketPassword’)</codeblock>Connecting
            to cluster is done by creating a new SDK instance (or handle, or object) and providing
            the cluster address and bucket name as input parameters.</p>
        <p>The cluster address specifies how to contact the Couchbase cluster, and the bucket name
            specifies which data bucket should be accessed.</p>
        <p>Once an SDK instance is connected, it may be used to access data.</p>
        <p>Information about the cluster location and bucket to use may be specified by a connection
            string. A connection string is a URI-like string which specifies the cluster node(s) and
            the bucket to connect to. It may also specify additional options.</p>
        <p>The connection string uses a scheme (<codeph>couchbase://</codeph>) followed by the host
            (which is an IP or hostname of any KV cluster node) and a bucket (as the connection
            string’s path). Additional connection options can be specified in a URL-style
                format.<note>If using [MDS], it is recommended to specify only data (KV) nodes in
                the connection string.</note></p>
        <p>See <xref href="connection-advanced.dita#concept_oml_lpm_zs"/> for a detailed overview of
            the connection process, and tips to ensure best performance and application
            behavior.</p>
        <section><title>Connecting from an SDK</title><p>Most Couchbase SDKs will accept a
                connection string, however the other object names, verbs, and options are very SDK
                specific.</p><p>Provided below is an example in Python. Links to examples for other
                SDKs are found
            below.</p><codeblock outputclass="language-python" spectitle="Connecting to a cluster, in Python">from couchbase.bucket import Bucket
cb = Bucket('couchbase://10.0.0.31/default')
cb.upsert('docid', {'new': 'document', 'fields': []})</codeblock>node.js
            | <xref
                href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/devguide-examples/blob/master/java/src/main/java/com/couchbase/devguide/ConnectionBase.java"
                format="html" scope="external">Java</xref> | <xref
                href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/devguide-examples/blob/master/go/connecting.go"
                format="html" scope="external">Go</xref> | .NET | <xref
                href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/devguide-examples/blob/master/c/connecting.c"
                format="html" scope="external">C</xref> | <xref
                href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/devguide-examples/blob/master/python/connecting.py"
                format="html" scope="external">Python</xref></section>
        <section><title>Connecting from the command line</title>You may direct the <i>cbc</i>
            command line utility to a cluster by specifying the connection string via the -U option,
            for
            example:<screen>$ cbc cat airport_4542 -U couchbase://10.0.0.31/travel-sample</screen></section>
        <section><title>Connection string examples</title>
            <codeblock spectitle="Connect to localhost, default bucket">couchbase://localhost/default</codeblock>
            <codeblock spectitle="Connect to localhost non-default bucket">couchbase://localhost/travel-sample</codeblock>
            <codeblock spectitle="Connect remote IP, non-default bucket">couchbase://10.4.3.42/travel-sample</codeblock>
            <codeblock spectitle="Connect to remote hostname">couchbase://cbnode3.mybiz.com/default</codeblock>
            <codeblock spectitle="Connect to multiple nodes">couchbase://10.4.3.41,10.4.3.42,10.4.3.43/default</codeblock><note>See
                    <xref href="connection-advanced.dita#concept_oml_lpm_zs"/> for more information
                on connecting to multiple nodes.</note>
            <codeblock spectitle="Connect with options">couchbase://cbnode3.mybiz.com/default?operation_timeout=5.5&amp;config_total_timeout=15&amp;http_poolsize=0</codeblock>
            Additional options may be found in the connection string reference for your
            SDK.</section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
