<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ygh_llm_zs">
 <title>Updating and creating documents</title>
 <shortdesc>This chapter will show how documents may be updated in Couchbase. Documents can be
        updated using a Couchbase SDK, or through the cbc command line utility.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p>
            <codeblock>upsert(docid, document)
insert(docid, document)
replace(docid, document)</codeblock>
        </p>
        <section><p>The first step in using a database involves storing data into it.</p><p>In
                Couchbase, documents are typically updated using one of the <i>upsert</i>,
                    <i>insert</i>, and <i>replace</i> methods. These methods will all write a JSON
                document with a given document ID (key) to the database. The update methods differ
                in behavior in respect to the existing state of the document:</p>
            <ul id="ul_wjj_zlm_zs">
                <li><i>insert</i> will only create the document if the given ID is not found within
                    the database.</li>
                <li><i>replace</i> will only replace the document if the given ID already exists
                    within the database.</li>
                <li><i>upsert</i> will always replace the document, ignoring whether the ID has
                    already existed or not.</li>
            </ul> Since Couchbase’s KV store may be thought of as a distributed hashmap or
            dictionary, the following code samples are explanatory of Couchbase’ update operations
            <codeblock outputclass="language-python">KV_STORE = {}

def insert(doc_id, value):
    if doc_id not in KV_STORE:
        KV_STORE[doc_id] = value
    else:
        raise KeyAlreadyExists()

def replace(doc_id, value):
    if doc_id in KV_STORE:
        KV_STORE[doc_id] = value
    else:
        raise KeyNotFound()

def upsert(doc_id, value):
    KV_STORE[doc_id] = value</codeblock></section>
        <section>
            <title>Document IDs</title>
            <p>Document IDs are assigned by application. A valid document ID must:</p><p>
                <ul id="ul_rht_rnm_zs">
                    <li>Conform to UTF-8 encoding</li>
                    <li>Be no longer than 250 bytes<note>Note the difference between bytes and
                            characters. Most non-Latin characters occupy more than a single
                            byte</note></li>
                </ul>
            </p>You are free to choose any ID for your document, so long as they conform to the
            above restrictions. Unlike some other database, Couchbase does not automatically
            generate IDs for you (but see [counter pattern]).</section>
        <section><title>Updating documents via an SDK</title><p>Couchbase SDKs feature APIs
                reflecting the different ways to update documents.</p><p>Any update operation
                requires the document itself and document’s ID as
                input.<codeblock>cb.upsert('docid', {'property': 'value'})
cb.insert('docid', {'property': 'value'})
cb.replace('docid', {'property': 'value'})</codeblock></p>Examples
            of these operations in other SDKs:<p><xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/devguide-examples/blob/master/nodejs/updating.js"
                    format="html" scope="external">node.js</xref> | <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/devguide-examples/blob/master/java/src/main/java/com/couchbase/devguide/Updating.java"
                    format="html" scope="external">Java</xref> | <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/devguide-examples/blob/master/go/updating.go"
                    format="html" scope="external">Go</xref> | .NET | <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/devguide-examples/blob/master/c/updating.c"
                    format="html" scope="external">C</xref> | <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/devguide-examples/blob/master/python/updating.py"
                    format="html" scope="external">Python</xref></p></section>
        <section><title>Document format</title>Most SDKs will automatically convert the document to
            JSON before storing it on the server (and will return an error if the document cannot be
            converted to JSON). Additional options are available if you wish to store non-JSON data.
            Refer to the documentation of the SDK you are using for more details on how to store
            JSON and non-JSON values. </section>
        <section>
            <title>Additional options</title>
            <p>
                <ul id="ul_gfq_mhg_45">
                    <li><xref href="expiry.dita#concept_o53_kps_zs">TTL</xref> or Expiry value which
                        will instruct the server to delete the document after a given amount of
                        time. This option is useful for transient data (such as sessions). By
                        default documents do not expire. See <xref
                            href="expiry.dita#concept_o53_kps_zs">TTL</xref> for more information on
                        expiration.</li>
                    <li><xref href="cas-concurrency.dita#concept_iq4_bts_zs">CAS</xref> value to
                        protect against concurrent updates to the same document. See <xref
                            href="cas-concurrency.dita#concept_iq4_bts_zs">CAS</xref> for a
                        description on how to use CAS values in your application.</li>
                    <li><xref href="durability.dita#concept_gyg_14s_zs">Persistence and replication
                            requirements</xref>.</li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        </section>
        <section><title>Return values</title>If an update completed successfully, a success
            indicator along with the document’s current <xref
                href="cas-concurrency.dita#concept_iq4_bts_zs">CAS</xref> value is
            returned.</section>
        <section><title>SDK-specific documentation</title>SDK-Specific documentation about creating
            documents may be found below: Python, Ruby, C, node.js, .NET, Java, Go</section>
        <section>
            <title>Updating documents via the command line</title> Documents may be updated using
            the <xref href="cli-overview.dita#concept_lg3_dhm_zs">cbc</xref> utility.<note>The
                following examples assume the cbc command is being executed on one of the cluster
                nodes. If run on another machine, refer to the <xref
                    href="connecting.dita#concept_fbg_xjm_zs">documentation</xref> to see how to
                specify the cluster
            address.</note><screen># When storing JSON data using cbc, ensure it is properly quoted for your shell:
$ cbc create docid -V '{"json":"value"}' -M upsert
docid               Stored. CAS=0x8234c3c0f213</screen></section>
    </conbody>
    </concept>