<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_gyg_14s_zs">
 <title>Durability</title>
	<shortdesc>Data durability refers to the fault tolerance and persistence of data in the face of software
		or hardware failure. Even the most reliable software and hardware might fail at some
		point, and along with the failures, introduce a chance of data loss.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <p>Couchbase’s architecture guards against most forms of failure and protects against data
            loss. Buckets can be configured for replication, which makes additional copies of the
            data redundant and allows for the failure of copies: as long as the data is available
            somewhere, it is not lost.</p>
        <p>Data is also written to the disk, so in the case of a power outage or software crash,
            data can be retrieved from the disk during recovery.</p>
        <p>By default, Couchbase does not immediately replicate or write data to disk. After an item
			is modified, Couchbase immediately stores these modifications in memory on the node that is
			active for the given item. It then places the item inside a <term>disk queue</term> and a
				<term>replication queue</term>. The disk queue is served by another thread that persists the
			change to the disk, and the replication queue is served by another thread that replicates
			the change to any replicas within the cluster. This is done to improve performance, because
			modifying an item in memory is typically very quick, whereas sending an item over the
			network or writing it to the disk may take longer. In most cases items are replicated or
			persisted within a few milliseconds although the operations may take longer if the storage
			medium is slow or the network is congested.</p>
        <p>If a node fails, any modifications in its queues are lost, and when it recovers it will
			only contain modifications that had already been stored to disk. If the failed node is
			failed over, a replica node (more precisely, a replica for the given vBucket) will take it
			over, but will only know about the modifications which were successfully replicated to it:
			any modifications in the failed node’s replication queue are lost.</p>
        <section>
            <title>Durability requirements</title>
            <p>As mentioned before, modifications to items are done synchronously in memory and
				asynchronously on the disk and network. The synchronous modification in memory involves
				modifying the item and sending a success response to the client. This tells your
				application that the item has successfully been stored/modified, and allows your
				application to continue operating.</p>
            <p>Applications may specify requirements for durability to the Couchbase client to wait
				until the item has also been persisted and replicated. This ensures greater durability
				of your data against failure in certain edge cases, such as a slow network or storage
				media. Operations performed using the durability requirement options will appear as
				failures to the application if the modification could not be successfully stored to disk
				and/or replicated to replica nodes. Upon receiving such a failure response, the
				application may retry the operation or mark it as a failure. In any event, the
				application will never be under the mistaken assumption that the modification was
				performed when it fact it was lost inside one of the aforementioned queues.</p>
        </section>
        <section><title>Configuring durability in SDKs</title><p>Durability requirements are
				typically present as an extra option to mutation operations (such as upsert). The
					<term>level of durability</term> is configurable depending on the needs of the
				application.</p><p>The level of durability may be expressed in two values:<ol
					id="ol_tzb_w4s_zs">
					<li>The <i>replication</i> factor of the operation: how many replicas must this
						operation be propagated to. This is specified as the <codeph>ReplicateTo</codeph>
						option in most SDKs.</li>
					<li>The <term>persistence</term> of the modification: how many persisted copies of
						the modified record must exist. Often found as a <codeph>PersistTo</codeph>
						option.</li>
				</ol></p>Examples of these settings include:<ul id="ul_h5y_z4s_zs">
				<li>Ensure the modification is stored (on disk) on the active (master) node.</li>
				<li>Ensure the modification exists (in memory) on at least one replica.</li>
				<li>Ensure the modification is stored (on disk) on at least one replica.</li>
				<li>Ensure the modification exists (in memory) on all replicas.</li>
				<li>Ensure the modification is stored (on disk) on the active node, and exists (in
					memory) on all replicas.</li>
				<li>Ensure the modification is stored (on disk) on the active node, and on all
					replicas.</li>
			</ul><p>When an operation is propagated to a replica, it is first propagated to the
				replica’s memory and then placed in a queue (as above) to be persisted to the replica’s
				disk. You can control whether you desire the operation to only be propagated to a
				replica’s memory (<codeph>ReplicateTo</codeph>), or whether to wait until it is fully
				persisted to the replica’s disk
					(<codeph>PersistTo</codeph>).</p><p><option>PersistTo</option> receives a value total
				to the number of nodes that an operation should be persisted. The maximum value is the
				number of replica nodes plus one. A value of 1 indicates master-only persistence (and no
				replica persistence).</p><p><option>ReplicateTo</option> receives a value total to the
				number of <i>replica</i> nodes the operation should be replicated. Its maximum value is
				the number of replica nodes.</p></section>
        <section>
            <title>Performance considerations</title>
            <p>Note that Couchbase’s design of asynchronous persistence and replication is there for
                a reason: The time it takes to store an item in memory is several orders of
                magnitude quicker than persisting it to disk or sending it over the network.
                Operation times and latencies will increase as it will need to wait on the speed of
                the network and the speed of the disk.</p>
            <p>A common requirement is that an operation should be propagated to at least one
                additional location before continuing. An additional copy can either be in the
                master’s storage (master persistence), or in the memory of a replica node. Depending
                on your environment either persistence or replication may be quicker: replication
                will be quicker on a 10GE network with commodity magnetic drives, but persistence
                will be quicker on a 1GE network with SSD drives.</p>
            <p>Durability operations may also cause increased network traffic, since it is
                implemented at the client level by sending special probes to each server once the
                actual modification has completed.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Setting durability requirements in SDKs</title>
            <p>All SDKs (except C) expose durability requirements through a
                    <codeph>persist_to</codeph> and <codeph>replicate_to</codeph> option. Below are
                examples showing their use</p>
            <p><xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/devguide-examples/blob/master/c/durability.cc"
                    format="html" scope="external">C</xref> | <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/devguide-examples/blob/master/java/src/main/java/com/couchbase/devguide/Durability.java"
                    format="html" scope="external">Java</xref> | <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/devguide-examples/blob/master/python/durability.py"
                    format="html" scope="external">Python</xref> | <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/devguide-examples/blob/master/go/durability.go"
                    format="html" scope="external">Go</xref> | <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/devguide-examples/blob/master/nodejs/durability.js"
                    format="html" scope="external">node.js</xref> | .NET</p>
        </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
