<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_o53_kps_zs">
 <title>Document expiration</title>
 <shortdesc>Use expiration values on documents to handle transient data</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>Most data in a database is there to be persisted and long lived. However the need for transient
            or temporary data does arise in applications, such as in the case of user sessions,
            caches, or temporary documents representing a given process ownership.</p>
        <p>In databases without a built-in expiration feature, dealing with transient data may be
			cumbersome. To provide “expiration” semantics, applications are forced to record a time
			stamp in a record, and then upon each access of the record, check the time stamp, and if
			invalid, delete it.</p>
        <p>Since some logically ‘expired’ documents may never be accessed by the application, in
            order to ensure that temporary records to not persist and occupy storage, a scheduled
            process is typically also employed to routinely scan the database for expired entries,
            purging those entries that are no longer valid.</p>
        <p>Workarounds such as those described above are not required for Couchbase, as Couchbase
            allows applications to declare the lifetime of a given document, eliminating the need to
            embed “validity” information in documents and eliminating the need for a routine “purge”
            of logically expired data.</p>
        <p>When an application attempts to access a document which has already expired, the server
            will indicate to the client that the item is not found. The server internally handles
            the process of determining the validity of the document and removing older, expired
            documents (See “Performance” section below).</p>
        <section>
            <title>Setting expiration with SDKs</title>
            <p>By default, Couchbase documents do not expire, however the expiration value may be
                set for the <apiname>upsert</apiname>, <apiname>replace</apiname>, and
                    <apiname>insert</apiname> APIs when modifying data.</p>
            <p>Additionally, Couchbase offers two unique APIs to deal with expiration without
                modifying the contents of the document.</p>
            <p>The <apiname>getAndTouch</apiname> API allows an application to retrieve a document
                while modifying its expiration time. This method is useful when reading session data
                from the database: since accessing the data is indicative of it still being “alive”,
                    <apiname>getAndTouch</apiname> provides a natural way to extend its
                    lifetime.<note>Some SDKs expose <apiname>getAndTouch</apiname> as an option to
                        <apiname>get</apiname></note>The <apiname>touch</apiname> API allows an
                application to modify a document’s expiration time without otherwise accessing the
                document. This method is useful when an application is handling a user session but
                does not need to access the database (for example, if a certain document is already
                cached locally).</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Expiry value</title>
            <p>For Couchbase SDKs which accept simple integer expiry values (as opposed to a proper
				date or time object) allow expiration to be specified in two flavors.<ol
					id="ol_uk5_2qs_zs">
					<li>As an offset from the current time.</li>
					<li>As an absolute Unix time stamp </li>
				</ol>If the absolute value of the expiry is less than 30 days (i.e. <codeph>60 * 60 * 24
					* 30</codeph>), it is considered an <i>offset</i>. If it is greater, it is considered
				an <i>absolute time stamp</i>. It may be preferable for applications to normalize the
				expiration value (i.e. by always converting it to an absolute time stamp) in order to
				avoid issues when the intended offset is larger than 30 days (in which case it is taken
				to mean a Unix time stamp and will result in the document automatically expiring as soon
				as it is stored). </p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <hazardstatement>
                <messagepanel id="messagepanel_y22_jqs_zs">
                    <typeofhazard>If you wish to use the expiry feature, then you should supply the
                        expiry value for every mutation operation</typeofhazard>
                    <howtoavoid>When dealing with expiration, it is important to note that most
                        operations will implicitly remove any existing expiration. Thus when
                        modifying a document with expiration, it is important to pass the desired
                        expiration time.</howtoavoid>
                </messagepanel>
            </hazardstatement>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Performance considerations</title>
            <p>Operations on expired documents perform as quickly as their non-expiry
                counterparts.</p>
            <p>Note that expired documents are not deleted from the server as soon as they expire.
                While a request to the server for an expired document will receive a response
                indicating the document does not exist, expired documents are actually deleted (i.e.
                cease to occupy storage and RAM) when an <i>expiry pager</i> is run. The <i>expiry
                    pager</i> is a routine internal process which scans the database for items which
                have expired and promptly removes them from storage.</p>
            <p>When gathering resource usage statistics, note that expired-but-not-purged items
                (i.e. the expiry pager has not scanned this item yet) will still be considered with
                respect to the overall storage size and item count.</p>
        </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
