<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="extended_attributes_fundamentals">
  <title>Extended Attributes: Fundamentals</title>
  
  <shortdesc> 
    Couchbase Server permits the definition of <i>extended attributes</i>. These
    allow application developers to define application-specific metadata  
    visible only to those applications that request it or attempt to modify it.  
    This might be, for example, metadata specific to a programming framework that 
    should be hidden by default from other frameworks, or possibly from other versions of 
    the same framework.
  </shortdesc>
  
  <body>
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Definition, Access, and Discovery
      </title>
      
      <p>
        The Couchbase SDK supports the creation and modification of extended attributes
        by applications written in
        <xref href="../sdk/nodejs/sdk-xattr-example.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Node.js</xref>,
        <xref href="../sdk/java/sdk-xattr-example.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Java</xref>,
        <xref href="../sdk/dotnet/sdk-xattr-example.dita" scope="local" format="dita">.NET</xref>,
        <xref href="../sdk/php/sdk-xattr-example.dita" scope="local" format="dita">PHP</xref>,
        <xref href="../sdk/python/sdk-xattr-example.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Python</xref>,
        <xref href="../sdk/go/sdk-xattr-example.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Go</xref>,
        and
        <xref href="../sdk/c/sdk-xattr-example.dita" scope="local" format="dita">C</xref>.
        This is achieved by extensions to the
        <xref href="../sdk/subdocument-operations.dita" scope="local" format="dita">
        Subdocument API</xref>. As part of the Subdoc API, XATTR must necessarily be 
        JSON-specific, and are not able to store binary data directly.
      </p>
      
      <p>
        The creator-application can subsequently access and modify
        the extended attributes it has created within a document.
        However, Couchbase Server provides no facility for enumerating or sharing
        knowledge of extended attributes: therefore, no application
        has knowledge of the extended attributes within a 
        document other than their creator; unless such knowledge 
        is shared explicitly between applications by some mechanism external
        to Couchbase Server. 
        
      </p>
      
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Implications for Sizing
      </title>
      
      <p>
        Within Couchbase Server, the maximum size for each individual document 
        is 20 megabytes (see
        <xref href="../clustersetup/server-setup.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Cluster
        Operations</xref>).
        Extended
        attributes count against this size-limit: consequently, the size of a document may 
        reflect the presence of data inaccessible to some applications. 
      </p>
      
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Virtual Extended Attributes
      </title>
      
      <p>
        A <i>virtual</i> extended attribute exposes additional information 
        about a document. Couchbase Server provides a single virtual
        extended attribute, <codeph>$document</codeph>, which, when specified
        as a search-path, returns metadata on the document. Ouput
        might appear as follows:
      </p>
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">DocumentFragment
    {
      id='hotel_10138', 
      cas=1504782798402879488, 
      mutationToken=null
    }
    [
      GET($document)
        {
          value=
            {
              "exptime":0,
              "deleted":false,
              "CAS":"0x14e20ffb82ec0000",
              "seqno":"0x00000000000001fb",
              "datatype":["json","xattr"],
              "vbucket_uuid":"0x000060329233c341",
              "value_bytes":1504,
              "last_modified":"1504782798"
             }
         }
    ]</codeblock>
      
    </section>
    
    
  </body>
  
  <related-links>
    <link href="../sdk/subdocument-operations.dita"></link>
  </related-links>

</topic>
