<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_lgg_gmb_bt">
 <title>Dealing with non-JSON documents</title>
 <shortdesc>Store and retrieve non-JSON ("binary") data with Couchbase</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>Couchbase is a document database and functions best when document contents are JSON.
            Nevertheless Couchbase may be used to store non-JSON data for various use cases.</p>
        <p>Non-JSON formats may be more efficient in terms of memory and processing power (for
            example, if storing only flat strings, JSON adds an additional syntactical overhead of
            two bytes per string). Non-JSON documents may be desirable if migrating a legacy
            application which is using a customized binary format.</p>
        <p>Note that only JSON documents can be accessed using Query (N1QL). Limited support for
            non-JSON documents is available for MapReduce views. Additionally, non-JSON documents
            will not be accessible using the <xref href="webui.dita#concept_j3z_zhm_zs">Web
                UI</xref> (the contents will be shown in their Base64 equivalent).</p>
        <section>
            <title>Using non-JSON documents with SDKs</title>
            <p>Couchbase SDKs have options for storing documents as non-JSON. The process is
                different for each SDK. Some SDKs will offer a <i>format</i> option to store a
                non-JSON value, while others will have a special "Raw Document" type.</p>
            <p>You may extend the SDK by using a <xref href="transcoders.dita#concept_bdb_smb_bt"
                    >transcoder</xref>, which can help make handling non-JSON documents a bit more
                transparent to the application.</p>
            <p>Here is an example of storing a non-JSON document using the Python
                SDK:<codeblock>>>> cb.upsert('binary_doc', "\x01\x02\x03\x00\x03\xff", format=FMT_BYTES)
OperationResult&lt;RC=0x0, Key=u'binary_doc', CAS=0x553debe8f413></codeblock></p>
        </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
