<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_mm2_xtm_g5">
 <title>Document modification [Beta]</title>
 <shortdesc>Query may be used to efficiently modify documents conforming to a specific criteria.
        This is part of the DML (Data Manipulation Language) and is considered beta at the time of
        writing.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        <hazardstatement>
            <messagepanel id="messagepanel_hgh_b25_g5">
                <typeofhazard>N1QL DML Statements are non-idempotent</typeofhazard>
                <howtoavoid>Executing a DML N1QL statement may result in modification of data even
                    if the actual statement fails to execute. Application-side retry logic should
                    take this into account when doing something like <codeph>SET
                        field=field+1</codeph> for example.</howtoavoid>
            </messagepanel>
        </hazardstatement>
        <section><title>UPDATE</title>Documents may be updated selectively based on a specific set
            of constraints using the <codeph>UPDATE</codeph> statement. You can update documents
            based on their <i>document ID</i> or by a secondary attribute.<p>The following snippet
                updates the <codeph>sale_price</codeph> of every product type document to be 25% off
                the original price. It also makes use of the <codeph>RETURNING</codeph> keyword to
                also return relevant information from within the document
                itself.</p><p><codeblock>query = N1QLQuery(
'UPDATE default '
    'SET sale_price=ROUND(price-(price * 0.25), 2) '
    'WHERE type=$1'
    'RETURNING name, price, sale_price',
    'product'
)

for row in cb.n1ql_query(query):
print '{0} WAS: {1:2}. NOW ONLY {2:2}'.format(
        row['name'], row['price'], row['sale_price'])</codeblock>The
                    <codeph>UPDATE</codeph> keyword can also be used for in-place updates of
                specific document IDs using the <codeph>USE KEYS</codeph> specifier. The following
                example updates a single field in a document, specified by its document
                ID:<codeblock>query = N1QLQuery(
'UPDATE default USE KEYS $keys SET description=$desc',
    keys=['utilikilt1_speaker'],
    desc='Use this handy utilikilt as a fashion accessory or in the garage, and lets '
)
cb.n1ql_query(query).execute()</codeblock></p></section>
        <section><title>DELETE</title>Documents may also be removed using a syntax similar to
                <codeph>UPDATE</codeph>. Like <codeph>UPDATE</codeph>, the <codeph>DELETE</codeph>
            statement is powerful as it allows deletion of items by using secondary criteria. The
            example below removes all documents which have a type of
            <codeph>product</codeph><codeblock>meta = cb.n1ql_query(
    N1QLQuery('DELETE from default WHERE type=$1', 'product')
).execute().meta
print 'Deleted {0} items!'.format(meta['metrics'].get('mutationCount', 0))</codeblock></section>
        <section><title>UPDATE/DELETE examples</title>C | <xref
                href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/devguide-examples/blob/master/python/n1ql-update-delete.py"
                format="html" scope="external">Python</xref> | Java | .NET | node.js | Go</section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
