<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="devguide-concept-querying">
 <title>Querying with N1QL</title>
 <shortdesc>You can use the N1QL query language to search and query documents from your
		applications.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  
        <section>
            <title>Prerequisites for querying</title>
            <p>To use N1QL queries, your cluster must have at least one node with the query and
				index services enabled.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Executing queries</title>
            <p>Couchbase queries may be issued by one of the following mechanisms:<ul
                    id="ul_pn5_l3t_zs">
                    <li>Couchbase SDK.</li>
                    <li><i>cbq</i> shell.</li>
                    <li><xref href="cli-overview.dita#concept_lg3_dhm_zs">cbc</xref> command-line
                        (via <codeph>cbc n1ql</codeph>).</li>
                    <li>Query REST API.</li>
                </ul></p>
            <p>As a N1QL query is essentially a string parsed by the query server, and as the result
				for each query is essentially JSON, queries will function the same regardless of whether
				they are executed using the <cmdname>cbq</cmdname> shell, an SDK, or using the REST API
				directly. Nevertheless, the result format received using an SDK may be a bit different
				than that received using <cmdname>cbq</cmdname> or the REST API.</p>
            <p>To demonstrate the query language and functionality, we will be querying the
                travel-sample bucket which can be installed during installation. If you didn’t
                install it during install-time, you can install it using the Couchbase Admin Console
                [Loading Sample Buckets].</p>
            <p>When issuing N1QL queries using an SDK, ensure the SDK is connected to the bucket you
                are issuing queries against.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Running cbq</title>
            <p>cbq is an interactive shell for executing N1QL queries. It is shipped with Couchbase
                Server.</p>
            <p>It is not in the system-wide path by default. To run it, invoke the full path to cbq.
                Copy/paste the following into your terminal:<ul id="ul_gst_r3t_zs">
                    <li><b>Linux</b><codeblock>/opt/couchbase/bin/</codeblock></li>
                    <li><b>Mac OS
                        X</b><codeblock>"/Applications/Couchbase Server.app/Contents/Resources/couchbase-core/bin/cbq"</codeblock></li>
                </ul><note type="important">By default, <cmdname>cbq</cmdname> tries to connect to
                    the query service running locally on the current node. If no query service is
                    running on the current node, a connection refused error will be returned
                    whenever you attempt to execute a query.</note></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Creating the primary index</title>
            <note>The <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> bucket already comes with predefined indexes. As such,
				creating the primary index is not needed for the <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> bucket.</note>
            <note> If a bucket lacks a primary index, the query service will not be able to query
                it. Since the query service communicates with the indexing service, it requires that
                the indexing service be active for a given bucket. In order to eliminate unnecessary
                indexing activity on buckets which are not queried via the query service, by default
                buckets are not indexed. </note>
            <p>To create the primary index, issue the following
                query:<codeblock>CREATE PRIMARY INDEX ON `travel-sample`;</codeblock>Note the
                backticks (`) around the bucket name. Also note that the statement ends with a
                semicolon: all N1QL statements end with a semicolon, as is standard in SQL.</p>
            <p>You may also create the primary index using an SDK. Here is an example in
                    Python:</p>
            	<codeblock outputclass="language-python">cb.n1ql_query('CREATE PRIMARY INDEX ON `travel-sample`').execute()</codeblock>
            	<note>Creating
                    the primary index may fail if it already exists. This is OK for now. </note>
        	<draft-comment>See [XXX]
        		for a more graceful approach to determining if a primary index exists for a
        		bucket.<p>Creating primary index in other languages: Python | C | Java |
        			.NET | node.js | PHP | Ruby | Go </p></draft-comment>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Querying</title>
            <p>Once the primary index has been created, you may query documents within the
                bucket.</p>
            <p>Queries are issued in the SDK using the query or <apiname>n1qlQuery</apiname> API (in
                some SDKs this is just called <apiname>query</apiname>). This API accepts a string
                which is the statement to execute, and returns the rows (or an iterable object which
                returns rows) representing the query’s result. Here is the above query, executed in
                Python:<screen>>>> <b>for row in cb.n1ql_query('SELECT type FROM `travel-sample` LIMIT 4'):</b>
...   <b>print row</b>
... 
{u'type': u'airline'}
{u'type': u'airline'}
{u'type': u'airline'}
{u'type': u'airport'}
</screen></p>
            <p>The above query using
                <i>cbq</i>:<screen>cbq> <b>SELECT type FROM `travel-sample` LIMIT 4;</b>
{
    "requestID": "3693c61a-5126-4e28-a7a4-9b3a7f4ddbf3",
    "signature": {
        "type": "json"
    },
    "results": [
        {
            "type": "airport"
        },
        {
            "type": "airport"
        },
        {
            "type": "airport"
        },
        {
            "type": "airport"
        }
    ],
    "status": "success",
    "metrics": {
        "elapsedTime": "436.801261ms",
        "executionTime": "436.607057ms",
        "resultCount": 4,
        "resultSize": 164
    }
}
</screen></p>
            <p>The result is a JSON object. The important field within the object is the
                    <codeph>results</codeph> property, which contains an array of results (a result
                set). Each item within the result set may be thought of as a “row”. In this case,
                since the entire document is selected, each result contains the entire content of
                the document.<note>Couchbase SDKs provide a row-based API which returns an object
                    which can be iterated over. Internally however, the response looks like the
                        <i>cbq</i> output above.</note></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Specifying query criteria</title>
            <p>Specifying criteria is done much in the same manner as in SQL: Using a
                    <codeph>WHERE</codeph> clause. Multiple conditions can be specified using the
                    <codeph>AND</codeph> or <codeph>OR</codeph>
                keywords:<screen>cbq> <b>SELECT airportname, city, country FROM `travel-sample` WHERE type="airport" AND city="Reno";</b>
{
    "requestID": "ef72fcdd-a4b8-4cb8-9a7b-a44aefb4f24d",
    "signature": {
        "airportname": "json",
        "city": "json",
        "country": "json"
    },
    "results": [
        {
            "airportname": "Reno Tahoe Intl",
            "city": "Reno",
            "country": "United States"
        }
    ],
    "status": "success",
    "metrics": {
        "elapsedTime": "9.903854596s",
        "executionTime": "9.903509441s",
        "resultCount": 1,
        "resultSize": 124
    }
}</screen>In
                the above query, we select all records that are of type <i>airport</i> and have a
                city of <i>Reno</i>.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Querying nested documents</title>
            <p>The above queries showed how to query top-level fields within a document. One of the
                main differences between JSON and flat rows is that JSON allows a nested structure
                where sub-documents can reside. N1QL contains extensions to deal with nested
                documents.</p>
            <screen>cbq> <b>SELECT airportname, city, country, geo.alt FROM `travel-sample` WHERE type="airport" AND geo.alt > 4000 AND country="United States" LIMIT 3;</b>
{
    "requestID": "0fe0bb33-987f-4095-acf3-220378344a85",
    "signature": {
        "airportname": "json",
        "alt": "json",
        "city": "json",
        "country": "json"
    },
    "results": [
        {
            "airportname": "Cheyenne Rgnl Jerry Olson Fld",
            "alt": 6156,
            "city": "Cheyenne",
            "country": "United States"
        },
        {
            "airportname": "Pueblo Memorial",
            "alt": 4726,
            "city": "Pueblo",
            "country": "United States"
        },
        {
            "airportname": "Cedar City Rgnl",
            "alt": 5622,
            "city": "Cedar City",
            "country": "United States"
        }
    ],
    "status": "success",
    "metrics": {
        "elapsedTime": "2.284177667s",
        "executionTime": "2.283990592s",
        "resultCount": 3,
        "resultSize": 473
    }
}</screen>
            <p>The above query selects airports in the United States which have an altitude of 4,000
                feet above sea level or greater.</p>
            <p>Note that the syntax <codeph>geo.alt</codeph> is used. In N1QL, this indicates that
				geo is a subdocument, and that its alt field (within the sub-document) is referenced.
				For comparison, the actual document looks like this (with the relevant field in
				bold):<screen>{
                "airportname": "Cedar City Rgnl",
                "city": "Cedar City",
                "country": "United States",
                "faa": "CDC",
                "<b>geo</b>": {
                    "<b>alt</b>": 5622,
                    "lat": 37.700967,
                    "lon": -113.098847
                },
                "icao": "KCDC",
                "id": 3824,
                "type": "airport",
                "tz": "America/Denver"
}</screen></p>
            <note>In SQL, the dot syntax is used to indicate a specific column from a specific
                table. This syntax may also be used in N1QL if the top level item (the first element
                of the field) refers to a bucket.</note>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Advanced subdocument access</title>
            <p>While N1QL allows you to select documents based on whether a given field has a given
				value, it can also perform powerful subdocument searching, allowing you to select
				documents based on more powerful criteria typically only available within full-featured
				programming languages.</p>
            <p>For example:<ul id="ul_onq_4kt_zs">
                    <li>A document contains any subdocument of which any (or every) child matches a
                        given criteria.</li>
                    <li>All of a document’s immediate children satisfy a given criteria.</li>
                    <li>Any child within a document (and any of its sub-documents) contains a given
                        value.</li>
                </ul>These searches can be performed using the <codeph>ANY</codeph>,
                    <codeph>EVERY</codeph>, and <codeph>WITHIN</codeph> operators.</p>
            <draft-comment>[TODO. FILL IN THIS SECTION. travel-sample doesn’t provide a good data set to
				demonstrate this sort of query….]</draft-comment>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Aggregate functions</title>
            <p>You can also run analysis on records within the bucket. The following query returns
                the number of types in the <i>travel-sample</i>
                bucket:<codeblock>>>> <b>for row in cb.n1ql_query("SELECT DISTINCT(type) FROM `travel-sample`"):</b>
...   <b>print row</b>
... 
{u'type': u'route'}
{u'type': u'airport'}
{u'type': u'airline'}
{u'type': u'landmark'}</codeblock></p>
        </section>
        <section id="devguide-named-placeholders"><title>Query placeholders (Dynamic
                parameters)</title><p>
                <note>This feature is only available in the SDK and REST API. <i>cbq</i> currently
                    does not support placeholders</note>
            </p><p>Query placeholders allow your application to securely use dynamic query
                parameters for your application.</p><p>Consider a function which returns all
                airports located within a given city (passed as input). The query may be divided
                into a <i>fixed</i> or <i>static</i> part (select all airports in a city) and a
                    <i>dynamic</i> part (the actual city to search, specified via user
                input).</p><p>A naive implementation of this function might look something like
                this:</p><codeblock>def airports_in_city(city):
  query_string = "SELECT airportname FROM `travel-sample` WHERE city="
  query_string += '"' + city + '"'
  return cb.n1ql_query(query_string)</codeblock>The
            approach above is both unwieldy and insecure (subject to SQL injection attacks).<p>N1QL
                allows the use of placeholders to declare dynamic query parameters. Here's a version
                of the above using
                placeholders:<codeblock>def airports_in_city(city):
  query_string = "SELECT airportname FROM `travel-sample` WHERE city=$1"
  query = N1QLQuery(query_string, city)
  return cb.n1ql_query(query)</codeblock>The
                    <codeph>$1</codeph> is a positional placeholder. When the query is constructed,
                it may receive arguments, with each argument being used as the placeholder value in
                the query. Thus, <codeph>$1</codeph> refers to the first
                    argument,<codeph>$2</codeph> to the second, and so on.</p><p>Placeholders may
                also be <i>named</i>. This is particularly useful when there are many query
                parameters and ensuring that they are all in the correct order may be cumbersome.
                Name query placeholders take the form of
            <codeph>$name</codeph>.</p><codeblock>query_string = (
"SELECT airportname FROM `travel-sample`"
"WHERE country=$country "
"AND geo.alt > $altitude "
"AND (geo.lat BETWEEN $min_lat AND $max_lat) "
"AND (geo.lon BETWEEN $min_lon AND $max_lon "
)</codeblock>Then
            to issue the actual
            query:<codeblock>query = N1QLQuery(
    query_string,
    country=”United States”,
    altitude=500, min_lat=-50, max_lat=50, min_lon=-180, max_lon=0)</codeblock></section>
        <section><title>Prepared (optimized) statements</title>When a N1QL query string is sent to
            the server, the server will inspect the string and parse it, planning which indexes to
            query. Once this is done, it generates a <i>query plan</i>. The computation for the plan
            adds some additional processing time and overhead for the query.<p>Often-used queries
                can be <i>prepared</i> so that its <i>plan</i> is generated only once. Subsequent
                queries using the same query string will use the pre-generated <i>plan</i> instead,
                saving on the overhead and processing of the plan each time.</p><p>You can indicate
                to the SDK that a given query should be optimized in the above fashion. When an SDK
                sees that a query should be optimized, it will internally prepare the statement and
                store the plan in an internal cache. When issuing the query again, the SDK will
                check to see if a plan exists in its cache, and will send the plan to the
                server.</p><p>To indicate that an SDK should optimize a query, the
                    <parmname>adhoc</parmname> parameter should be set to false. When a query is not
                    <i>ad-hoc</i>, the SDK will fetch the plan (if it does not already have it). Do
                not turn off the <i>adhoc</i> flag for each query since only a finite number of
                query plans (currently 5000) can be stored in the SDK.</p><p>
                <codeblock>query = N1QLQuery("SELECT airportname FROM `travel-sample` WHERE country=$1", "USA")
q.adhoc = False</codeblock>
                <note>Parameterized queries are considered the same query for caching and planning
                    purposes, even if the supplied parameters are different.</note>
            </p></section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
