<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic5237">
   <title>Beer sample bucket</title>
   <shortdesc>The beer sample data shows a combination of document structure and sample views.</shortdesc>
   <body>
      <p>The beer sample data demonstrates a combination of the document structure used to describe
         different items, including references between objects, and a number of sample
         views that show the view structure and layout.</p>
      <p>The primary document type is the ‘beer’ document:</p>
      <codeblock><codeph>{
   "name": "Piranha Pale Ale",
   "abv": 5.7,
   "ibu": 0,
   "srm": 0,
   "upc": 0,
   "type": "beer",
   "brewery_id": "110f04166d",
   "updated": "2010-07-22 20:00:20",
   "description": "",
   "style": "American-Style Pale Ale",
   "category": "North American Ale"
}
</codeph></codeblock>
      <p>Beer documents contain core information about different beers, including the name, alcohol
         by volume ( <codeph>abv</codeph> ) and categorization data.</p>
      <p>Individual beer documents are related to brewery documents using the
            <codeph>brewery_id</codeph> field, which holds the information about a specific brewery
         for the beer:</p>
      <codeblock><codeph>{
   "name": "Commonwealth Brewing #1",
   "city": "Boston",
   "state": "Massachusetts",
   "code": "",
   "country": "United States",
   "phone": "",
   "website": "",
   "type": "brewery",
   "updated": "2010-07-22 20:00:20",
   "description": "",
   "address": [
   ],
   "geo": {
       "accuracy": "APPROXIMATE",
       "lat": 42.3584,
       "lng": -71.0598
   }
}
</codeph></codeblock>
      <p>The brewery record includes basic contact and address information for the brewery, and
         contains a spatial record consisting of the latitude and longitude of the brewery
         location.</p>
      <p>To demonstrate the view functionality in Couchbase Server, three views are defined.</p>
      <section><title>brewery_beers view</title><p>The <codeph>brewery_beers</codeph> view outputs a
            composite list of breweries and beers they brew by using the view output format to
            create a ‘fake’ join. This outputs the brewery ID for brewery document types, and the brewery
            ID and beer ID for beer document
            types:</p><codeblock><codeph>function(doc, meta) {
  switch(doc.type) {
  case "brewery":
    emit([meta.id]);
    break;
  case "beer":
    if (doc.brewery_id) {
      emit([doc.brewery_id, meta.id]);
    }
    break;
  }
}
</codeph></codeblock><p>The
            raw JSON output from the
            view:</p><codeblock><codeph>{
   "total_rows" : 7315,
   "rows" : [
      {
         "value" : null,
         "id" : "110f0013c9",
         "key" : [
            "110f0013c9"
         ]
      },
      {
         "value" : null,
         "id" : "110fdd305e",
         "key" : [
            "110f0013c9",
            "110fdd305e"
         ]
      },
      {
         "value" : null,
         "id" : "110fdd3d0b",
         "key" : [
            "110f0013c9",
            "110fdd3d0b"
         ]
      },
…
      {
         "value" : null,
         "id" : "110fdd56ff",
         "key" : [
            "110f0013c9",
            "110fdd56ff"
         ]
      },
      {
         "value" : null,
         "id" : "110fe0aaa7",
         "key" : [
            "110f0013c9",
            "110fe0aaa7"
         ]
      },
      {
         "value" : null,
         "id" : "110f001bbe",
         "key" : [
            "110f001bbe"
         ]
      }
   ]
}
</codeph></codeblock><p>The
            output could be combined with the corresponding brewery and beer data to provide a list
            of the beers at each brewery.</p></section>
      <section><title>by_location view</title><p>Outputs the brewery location, accounting for
            missing fields in the source data. The output creates information either by country, by
            country and state, or by country, state and
            city.</p><codeblock><codeph>function (doc, meta) {
  if (doc.country, doc.state, doc.city) {
    emit([doc.country, doc.state, doc.city], 1);
  } else if (doc.country, doc.state) {
    emit([doc.country, doc.state], 1);
  } else if (doc.country) {
    emit([doc.country], 1);
  }
}
</codeph></codeblock><p>The
            view also includes the built-in <codeph>_count</codeph> function for the reduce portion
            of the view. Without using the reduce, the information outputs the raw location
            information:</p><codeblock><codeph>{
   "total_rows" : 1413,
   "rows" : [
      {
         "value" : 1,
         "id" : "110f0b267e",
         "key" : [
            "Argentina",
            "",
            "Mendoza"
         ]
      },
      {
         "value" : 1,
         "id" : "110f035200",
         "key" : [
            "Argentina",
            "Buenos Aires",
            "San Martin"
         ]
      },
…
      {
         "value" : 1,
         "id" : "110f2701b3",
         "key" : [
            "Australia",
            "New South Wales",
            "Sydney"
         ]
      },
      {
         "value" : 1,
         "id" : "110f21eea3",
         "key" : [
            "Australia",
            "NSW",
            "Picton"
         ]
      },
      {
         "value" : 1,
         "id" : "110f117f97",
         "key" : [
            "Australia",
            "Queensland",
            "Sanctuary Cove"
         ]
      }
   ]
}
</codeph></codeblock><p>With
            the <codeph>reduce()</codeph> enabled, grouping can be used to report the number of
            breweries by the country, state, or city. For example, using a grouping level of two,
            the information outputs the country and state
         counts:</p><codeblock><codeph>{"rows":[
{"key":["Argentina",""],"value":1},
{"key":["Argentina","Buenos Aires"],"value":1},
{"key":["Aruba"],"value":1},
{"key":["Australia"],"value":1},
{"key":["Australia","New South Wales"],"value":4},
{"key":["Australia","NSW"],"value":1},
{"key":["Australia","Queensland"],"value":1},
{"key":["Australia","South Australia"],"value":2},
{"key":["Australia","Victoria"],"value":2},
{"key":["Australia","WA"],"value":1}
]
}
</codeph></codeblock></section>
   </body>
   
</topic>
