<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic25783">
  <title>View and query examples</title>
  <shortdesc>This section provides general information and query examples.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>Building views and querying the indexes they generate is a combined process based both on the
      document structure and the view definition. 
      Writing an effective view to query your data may
      require changing or altering your document structure, or creating a more complex view in order
      to allow the specific selection of the data through the querying mechanism.</p>
    <p>For background and examples, the following selections provide a number of different scenarios
      and examples have been built to demonstrate the document structures, views and querying
      parameters required for different situations.</p>




    <section><title>General advice</title><p>There are some general points and advice for writing
        all views that apply irrespective of the document structure, query format, or view
        content.</p><ul>
        <li>Do not assume the field will exist in all documents.</li>
      </ul><p>Fields may be missing from your document, or may only be supported in specific
        document types. Use an <codeph>if</codeph> test to identify problems. For example:</p>
      
      <codeblock>if (document.firstname)...</codeblock>
      <ul>
        <li>View output is case sensitive.</li>
      </ul><p>The value emitted by the <codeph>emit()</codeph> function is case sensitive. Emitting
        a field value of ‘Martin’ but specifying a <codeph>key</codeph> value of ‘martin’ will not
        match the data. Emitted data, and the key selection values, should be normalized to
        eliminate potential problems. For example:</p>
      <codeblock>emit(doc.firstname.toLowerCase(),null);</codeblock>
      <ul>
        <li>Number formatting</li>
      </ul><p>Numbers within JavaScript may inadvertently be converted and output as strings. To
        ensure that data is correctly formatted, the value should be explicitly converted. For
        example:</p>
      <codeblock>emit(parseInt(doc.value,10),null);</codeblock><p>The
          <codeph>parseInt()</codeph> built-in function will convert a supplied value to an integer.
        The <codeph>parseFloat()</codeph> function can be used for floating-point
      numbers.</p></section>



    <section><title>Validating document type</title>
      <p>If your dataset includes documents that may be either JSON or binary, then you do not want
        to create a view that outputs individual fields for non-JSON documents. You can fix this by
        using a view that checks the metadata <codeph>type</codeph> field before outputting the JSON
        view
        information:</p><codeblock>function(doc,meta) {
    if (meta.type == "json") {
        emit(doc.firstname.toLowerCase(),null);
    }
}</codeblock><p>In
        the above example, the <codeph>emit()</codeph> function will only be called on a valid JSON
        document. Non-JSON documents will be ignored and not included in the view
      output.</p></section>



    <section><title>Document ID (primary) index</title>
      <p>To create a ‘primary key’ index, i.e. an index that contains a list of every document
        within the database, with the document ID as the key, you can create a simple
        view:</p><codeblock>function(doc,meta)
{
  emit(meta.id,null);
}
</codeblock><p>This
        enables you to iterate over the documents stored in the database.</p><p>This will provide
        you with a view that outputs the document ID of every document in the bucket using the
        document ID as the key.</p><p>The view can be useful for obtaining groups or ranges of
        documents based on the document ID, for example to get documents with a specific ID
        prefix:</p><codeblock>?startkey="object"&amp;endkey="object\u0000"
</codeblock><p>Or
        to obtain a list of objects within a given
        range:</p><codeblock>?startkey="object100"&amp;endkey="object199"
</codeblock><p>For
        all views, the document ID is automatically included as part of the view response. But the
        without including the document ID within the key emitted by the view, it cannot be used as a
        search or querying mechanism.</p></section>



    <section><title>Secondary index</title>
      <p>The simplest form of view is to create an index against a single field from the documents
        stored in your database.</p><p>For example, given the document
        structure:</p><codeblock>{
    "firstname": "Martin",
    "lastname": "Brown"
}
</codeblock><p>A
        view to support queries on the <codeph>firstname</codeph> field could be defined as
        follows:</p><codeblock>function(doc, meta)
{
  if (doc.firstname)
  {
     emit(doc.firstname.toLowerCase(),null);
  }
}</codeblock><p>The
        view works as follows for each document:</p><ul>
        <li><p>Only outputs a record if the document contains a <codeph>firstname</codeph>
            field.</p></li>
        <li><p>Converts the content of the <codeph>firstname</codeph> field to lowercase.</p></li>
      </ul><p>Queries can now be specified by supplying a string converted to lowercase. For
        example:</p><codeblock>?key="martin"</codeblock><p>Will return all
        documents where the <codeph>firstname</codeph> field contains ‘Martin’, regardless of the
        document field capitalization.</p></section>



    <section><title>Using expiration metadata</title>
      <p>The metadata object makes it very easy to create and update different views on your data
        using information outside of the main document data. For example, you can use the expiration
        field within a view to get the list of recently active sessions in a system.</p><p>Using the
        following <codeph>map()</codeph> function, which uses the expiration as part of the emitted
        data.</p><codeblock>function(doc, meta)
{
  if (doc.type &amp;&amp; doc.type == "session")
  {
    emit(meta.expiration, doc.nickname)
  }
}</codeblock><p>If
        you have sessions which are saved with a TTL, this will allow you to give a view of who was
        recently active on the service.</p></section>



    <section><title>Emitting multiple rows</title><p>The <codeph>emit()</codeph> function is used to
        create a record of information for the view during the map phase, but it can be called
        multiple times within that map phase to allowing querying over more than one source of
        information from each stored document.</p><p>An example of this is when the source documents
        contain an array of information. For example, within a recipe document, the list of
        ingredients is exposed as an array of objects. By iterating over the ingredients, an index
        of ingredients can be created and then used to find recipes by
        ingredient.</p><codeblock>{
    "title": "Fried chilli potatoes",
    "preptime": "5"
    "servings": "4",
    "totaltime": "10",
    "subtitle": "A new way with chips.",
    "cooktime": "5",
    "ingredients": [
        {
            "ingredtext": "chilli powder",
            "ingredient": "chilli powder",
            "meastext": "3-6 tsp"
        },
        {
            "ingredtext": "potatoes, peeled and cut into wedges",
            "ingredient": "potatoes",
            "meastext": "900 g"
        },
        {
            "ingredtext": "vegetable oil for deep frying",
            "ingredient": "vegetable oil for deep frying",
            "meastext": ""
        }
    ],
}</codeblock><p>The
        view can be created using the following <codeph>map()</codeph>
        function:</p><codeblock>function(doc, meta)
{
  if (doc.ingredients)
  {
    for (i=0; i &lt; doc.ingredients.length; i++)
    {
        emit(doc.ingredients[i].ingredient, null);
    }
  }
}</codeblock><p>To
        query for a specific ingredient, specify the ingredient as a
        key:</p><codeblock>?key="carrot"
</codeblock><p>The <codeph>keys</codeph>
        parameter can also be used in this situation to look for recipes that contain multiple
        ingredients. For example, to look for recipes that contain either “potatoes” or “chilli
        powder” you would
        use:</p><codeblock>?keys=["potatoes","chilli powder"]
</codeblock><p>This
        will produce a list of any document containing either ingredient. A simple count of the
        document IDs by the client can determine which recipes contain all three.</p><p>The output
        can also be combined. For example, to look for recipes that contain carrots and can be
        cooked in less than 20 minutes, the view can be rewritten
        as:</p><codeblock>function(doc, meta)
{
  if (doc.ingredients)
  {
    for (i=0; i &lt; doc.ingredients.length; i++)
    {
      if (doc.ingredients[i].ingredtext &amp;amp;&amp;amp; doc.totaltime)
      {
        emit([doc.ingredients[i].ingredtext, parseInt(doc.totaltime,10)], null);
      }
    }
  }
}</codeblock><p>In
        this map function, an array is output that generates both the ingredient name, and the total
        cooking time for the recipe. To perform the original query, carrot recipes requiring less
        than 20 minutes to
        cook:</p><codeblock>?startkey=["carrot",0]&amp;endkey=["carrot",20]
</codeblock><p>This
        generates the following
      view:</p><codeblock>{"total_rows":26471,"rows":[
{"id":"Mangoandcarrotsmoothie","key":["carrots",5],"value":null},
{"id":"Cheeseandapplecoleslaw","key":["carrots",15],"value":null}
]
}</codeblock></section>



    <section id="time-stamp-patterns"><title>Date and time selection</title><p>For date and time selection, consideration
        must be given to how the data will need to be selected when retrieving the information. This
        is particularly true when you want to perform log roll-up or statistical collection by using
        a reduce function to count or quantify instances of a particular event over
        time.</p><p>Examples of this in action include querying data over a specific range, on
        specific day or date combinations, or specific time periods. Within a traditional relational
        database it is possible to perform an extraction of a specific date or date range by storing
        the information in the table as a date type.</p><p>Within a map/reduce, the effect can be
        simulated by exposing the date into the individual components at the level of detail that
        you require. For example, to obtain a report that counts individual log types over a period
        identifiable to individual days, you can use the following <codeph>map()</codeph>
        function:</p><codeblock>function(doc, meta) {
    emit([doc.year, doc.mon, doc.day, doc.logtype], null);
}</codeblock><p>By
        incorporating the full date into the key, the view provides the ability to search for
        specific dates and specific ranges. By modifying the view content you can simplify this
        process further. For example, if only searches by year/month are required for a specific
        application, the day can be omitted.</p><p>And with the corresponding
          <codeph>reduce()</codeph> built-in of <codeph>_count</codeph>, you can perform a number of
        different queries. Without any form of data selection, for example, you can use the
          <codeph>group_level</codeph> parameter to summarize down as far as individual day, month,
        and year. Additionally, because the date is explicitly output, information can be selected
        over a specific range, such as a specific
        month:</p><codeblock>endkey=[2010,9,30]&amp;group_level=4&amp;startkey=[2010,9,0]</codeblock><p>Here
        the explicit date has been specified as the start and end key. The
          <codeph>group_level</codeph> is required to specify roll-up by the date and log
        type.</p><p>This will generate information similar to
        this:</p><codeblock>{"rows":[
{"key":[2010,9,1,"error"],"value":5},
{"key":[2010,9,1,"warning"],"value":10},
{"key":[2010,9,2,"error"],"value":8},
{"key":[2010,9,2,"warning"],"value":9},
{"key":[2010,9,3,"error"],"value":16},
{"key":[2010,9,3,"warning"],"value":8},
{"key":[2010,9,4,"error"],"value":15},
{"key":[2010,9,4,"warning"],"value":11},
{"key":[2010,9,5,"error"],"value":6},
{"key":[2010,9,5,"warning"],"value":12}
]
}</codeblock><p>Additional
        granularity, for example down to minutes or seconds, can be achieved by adding those as
        further arguments to the map
        function:</p><codeblock>function(doc, meta)
{
    emit([doc.year, doc.mon, doc.day, doc.hour, doc.min, doc.logtype], null);
}</codeblock><p>The
        same trick can also be used to output based on other criteria. For example, by day of the
        week, week number of the year or even by
        period:</p><codeblock>function(doc, meta) {
  if (doc.mon)
  {
    var quarter = parseInt((doc.mon - 1)/3,10)+1;

    emit([doc.year, quarter, doc.logtype], null);
  }
}</codeblock><p>To
        get more complex information, for example a count of individual log types for a given date,
        you can combine the <codeph>map()</codeph> and <codeph>reduce()</codeph> stages to provide
        the collation.</p><p>For example, by using the following <codeph>map()</codeph> function we
        can output and collate by day, month, or year as before, and with data selection at the date
        level.</p><codeblock>function(doc, meta) {
    emit([doc.year, doc.mon, doc.day], doc.logtype);
}
</codeblock><p>For
        convenience, you may wish to use the <codeph>dateToArray()</codeph> function, which converts
        a date object or string into an array. For example, if the date has been stored within the
        document as a single
        field:</p><codeblock>function(doc, meta) {
    emit(dateToArray(doc.date), doc.logtype);
}
</codeblock><p>For
        more information, see <codeph>dateToArray()</codeph>.</p><p>Using the following
          <codeph>reduce()</codeph> function, data can be collated for each individual logtype for
        each day within a single record of
        output.</p><codeblock>function(key, values, rereduce)
{
  var response = {"warning" : 0, "error": 0, "fatal" : 0 };
  for(i=0; i&lt;values.length; i++)
  {
    if (rereduce)
    {
      response.warning = response.warning + values[i].warning;
      response.error = response.error + values[i].error;
      response.fatal = response.fatal + values[i].fatal;
    }
    else
    {
      if (values[i] == "warning")
      {
        response.warning++;
      }
      if (values[i] == "error" )
      {
        response.error++;
      }
      if (values[i] == "fatal" )
      {
        response.fatal++;
      }
    }
  }
  return response;
}</codeblock><p>When
        queried using a <codeph>group_level</codeph> of two (by month), the following output is
        produced:</p><codeblock>{"rows":[
{"key":[2010,7], "value":{"warning":4,"error":2,"fatal":0}},
{"key":[2010,8], "value":{"warning":4,"error":3,"fatal":0}},
{"key":[2010,9], "value":{"warning":4,"error":6,"fatal":0}},
{"key":[2010,10],"value":{"warning":7,"error":6,"fatal":0}},
{"key":[2010,11],"value":{"warning":5,"error":8,"fatal":0}},
{"key":[2010,12],"value":{"warning":2,"error":2,"fatal":0}},
{"key":[2011,1], "value":{"warning":5,"error":1,"fatal":0}},
{"key":[2011,2], "value":{"warning":3,"error":5,"fatal":0}},
{"key":[2011,3], "value":{"warning":4,"error":4,"fatal":0}},
{"key":[2011,4], "value":{"warning":3,"error":6,"fatal":0}}
]
}</codeblock><p>The
        input includes a count for each of the error types for each month. Note that because the key
        output includes the year, month and date, the view also supports explicit querying while
        still supporting grouping and roll-up across the specified group. For example, to show
        information from 15th November 2010 to 30th April 2011 using the following
        query:</p><codeblock>?endkey=[2011,4,30]&amp;group_level=2&amp;startkey=[2010,11,15]
</codeblock><p>Which
        generates the following
        output:</p><codeblock>{"rows":[
{"key":[2010,11],"value":{"warning":1,"error":8,"fatal":0}},
{"key":[2010,12],"value":{"warning":3,"error":4,"fatal":0}},
{"key":[2011,1],"value":{"warning":8,"error":2,"fatal":0}},
{"key":[2011,2],"value":{"warning":4,"error":7,"fatal":0}},
{"key":[2011,3],"value":{"warning":4,"error":4,"fatal":0}},
{"key":[2011,4],"value":{"warning":5,"error":7,"fatal":0}}
]
}</codeblock><p>Keep
        in mind that you can create multiple views to provide different views and queries on your
        document data. In the above example, you could create individual views for the limited
        datatypes of logtype to create a <codeph>warningsbydate</codeph> view.</p></section>



    <section><title>Selective record output</title><p>If you are storing different document types
        within the same bucket, then you may want to ensure that you generate views only on a
        specific record type within the <codeph>map()</codeph> phase. This can be achieved by using
        an <codeph>if</codeph> statement to select the record.</p><p>For example, if you are storing
        blog ‘posts’ and ‘comments’ within the same bucket, then a view on the blog posts could be
        created using the following
        map:</p><codeblock>function(doc, meta) {
    if (doc.title &amp;&amp; doc.type &amp;&amp; doc.date &amp;&amp;
        doc.author &amp;&amp; doc.type == 'post')
    {
        emit(doc.title, [doc.date, doc.author]);
    }
}
</codeblock><p>The
        same solution can also be used if you want to create a view over a specific range or value
        of documents while still allowing specific querying structures. For example, to filter all
        the records from the statistics logging system over a date range that are of the type error
        you could use the following <codeph>map()</codeph>
        function:</p><codeblock>function(doc, meta) {
    if (doc.logtype == 'error')
    {
       emit([doc.year, doc.mon, doc.day],null);
    }
}
</codeblock><p>The
        same solution can also be used for specific complex query types. For example, all the
        recipes that can be cooked in under 30 minutes, made with a specific
        ingredient:</p><codeblock>function(doc, meta)
{
  if (doc.totaltime &amp;amp;&amp;amp; doc.totaltime &lt;= 20)
  {
    if (doc.ingredients) {
      for (i=0; i &lt; doc.ingredients.length; i++)
      {
        if (doc.ingredients[i].ingredtext)
        {
          emit(doc.ingredients[i].ingredtext, null);
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
</codeblock><p>The
        above function provides for much quicker and simpler selection of recipes by using a query and
        the <codeph>key</codeph> parameter, instead of having to work out the range that may be
        required to select recipes when the cooking time and ingredients are generated by the
        view.</p><p>These selections are application specific, but by producing different views for
        a range of appropriate values, for example 30, 60, or 90 minutes, recipe selection can be
        much easier at the expense of updating additional view indexes.</p></section>



    <section><title>Sorting on reduce values</title>
      <p>The sorting algorithm within the view system outputs information ordered by the generated
        key within the view, and therefore it operates before any reduction takes place.
        Unfortunately, it is not possible to sort the output order of the view on computed reduce
        values, as there is no post-processing on the generated view information.</p><p>To sort
        based on reduce values, you must access the view content with reduction enabled from a
        client, and perform the sorting within the client application.</p></section>



    <section><title>Solutions for simulating joins</title>
      <p>Joins between data, even when the documents being examined are contained within the same
        bucket, are not possible directly within the view system. However, you can simulate this by
        making use of a common field used for linking when outputting the view information. For
        example, consider a blog post system that supports two different record types, ‘blogpost’
        and ‘blogcomment’. The basic format for ‘blogpost’
        is:</p><codeblock>{
    "type" : "post",
    "title" : "Blog post"
    "categories" : [...],
    "author" : "Blog author"
    ...
}
</codeblock><p>The
        corresponding comment record includes the blog post ID within the document
        structure:</p><codeblock>{
    "type" : "comment",
    "post_id" : "post_3454"
    "author" : "Comment author",
    "created_at" : 123498235
...
}
</codeblock><p>To
        output a blog post and all the comment records that relate to the blog post, you can use the
        following
        view:</p><codeblock>function(doc, meta)
{
    if (doc.post_id &amp;&amp; doc.type &amp;&amp; doc.type == "post")
    {
        emit([doc.post_id, null], null);
    }
    else if (doc.post_id &amp;&amp; doc.created_at &amp;&amp; doc.type &amp;&amp; doc.type == "comment")
    {
        emit([doc.post_id, doc.created_at], null);
    }
}
</codeblock><p>The
        view makes use of the sorting algorithm when using arrays as the view key. For a blog post
        record, the document ID will be output will a null second value in the array, and the blog
        post record will therefore appear first in the sorted output from the view. For a comment
        record, the first value will be the blog post ID, which will cause it to be sorted in line
        with the corresponding parent post record, while the second value of the array is the date
        the comment was created, allowing sorting of the child comments.</p><p>For
        example:</p><codeblock>{"rows":[
{"key":["post_219",null],       "value":{...}},
{"key":["post_219",1239875435],"value":{...}},
{"key":["post_219",1239875467],"value":{...}},
]
}
</codeblock><p>Another
        alternative is to make use of a multi-get operation within your client through the main
        Couchbase SDK interface, which should load the data from cache. This lets you structure
        your data with the blog post containing an array of the of the child comment records. For
        example, the blog post structure might
        be:</p><codeblock>{
    "type" : "post",
    "title" : "Blog post"
    "categories" : [...],
    "author" : "Blog author",
    "comments": ["comment_2298","comment_457","comment_4857"],
    ...
}
</codeblock><p>To
        obtain the blog post information and the corresponding comments, create a view to find the
        blog post record, and then make a second call within your client SDK to get all the comment
        records from the Couchbase Server cache.</p></section>



    <section><title>Simulating transactions</title>
      <p>Couchbase Server does not support transactions, but the effect can be simulated by writing
        a suitable document and view definition that produces the effect while still only requiring
        a single document update to be applied.</p><p>For example, consider a typical banking
        application, the document structure could be as
        follows:</p><codeblock>{
   "account" : "James",
   "value" : 100
}
</codeblock><p>A
        corresponding record for another
        account:</p><codeblock>{
   "account" : "Alice",
   "value" : 200
}
</codeblock><p>To
        get the balance of each account, the following <codeph>map()</codeph>
        :</p><codeblock>function(doc, meta) {
    if (doc.account &amp;&amp; doc.value)
    {
      emit(doc.account,doc.value);
    }
}
</codeblock><p>The
          <codeph>reduce()</codeph> function can use the built-in <codeph>_sum</codeph>
        function.</p><p>When queried, using a <codeph>group_level</codeph> of 1, the balance of the
        accounts is
        displayed:</p><codeblock>{"rows":[
{"key":"Alice","value":200},
{"key":"James","value":100}
]
}
</codeblock><p>Money
        in an account can be updated just by adding another record into the system with the account
        name and value. For example, adding the
        record:</p><codeblock>{
   "account" : "James",
   "value" : 50
}
</codeblock><p>Re-querying
        the view produces an updated balance for each
        account:</p><codeblock>{"rows":[
{"key":"Alice","value":200},
{"key":"James","value":150}
]
}
</codeblock><p>However,
        if Alice wants to transfer $100 to James, two record updates are required:</p><ol>
        <li>A record that records an update to Alice’s account to reduce the value by 100.</li>
        <li>A record that records an update to James’s account to increase the value by
          100.</li>
      </ol><p>Unfortunately, the integrity of the transaction could be compromised in the event of a
        problem between step 1 and step 2. Alice’s account may be deducted, without updates James’
        record.</p><p>To simulate this operation while creating (or updating) only one record, a
        combination of a transaction record and a view must be used. The transaction record looks
        like
        this:</p><codeblock>{
     "fromacct" : "Alice",
     "toacct" : "James",
     "value" : 100
}
</codeblock><p>The
        above records the movement of money from one account to another. The view can now be updated
        to handle a transaction record and output a row through <codeph>emit()</codeph> to update
        the value for each
        account.</p><codeblock>function(doc, meta)
{
  if (doc.fromacct)
  {
    emit(doc.fromacct, -doc.value);
    emit(doc.toacct, doc.value);
  }
  else
  {
    emit(doc.account, doc.value);
  }
}
</codeblock><p>The
        above <codeph>map()</codeph> effectively generates two fake rows, one row subtracts the
        amount from the source account, and adds the amount to the destination account. The
        resulting view then uses the <codeph>reduce()</codeph> function to sum up the transaction
        records for each account to arrive at a final
        balance:</p><codeblock>{"rows":[
{"key":"Alice","value":100},
{"key":"James","value":250}
]
}
</codeblock><p>Throughout
        the process, only one record has been created, and therefore transient problems with that
        record update can be captured without corrupting or upsetting the existing stored
      data.</p></section>


    <section><title>Simulating multi-phase transactions</title>
      <p>The technique in Simulating Transactions works if your data will allow the use of a view to
        effectively roll-up the changes into a single operation. However, if your data and document
        structure do not allow it then you can use a multi-phase transaction process to perform the
        operation in a number of distinct stages.</p><p>This method is not reliant on views, but the
        document structure and update make it easy to find out if there are ‘hanging’ or trailing
        transactions that need to be processed without additional document updates. Using views and
        the Observe operation to monitor changes could lead to long wait times during the
        transaction process while the view index is updated.</p><p>To employ this method, you use a
        similar transaction record as in the previous example, but use the transaction record to
        record each stage of the update process.</p><p>Start with the same two account
        records:</p><codeblock>{
   "type" : "account",
   "account" : "James",
   "value" : 100,
   "transactions" : []
}
</codeblock><p>The
        record explicitly contains a <codeph>transactions</codeph> field which contains an array of
        all the currently active transactions on this record.</p><p>The corresponding record for the
        other
        account:</p><codeblock>{
   "type" : "account",
   "account" : "Alice",
   "value" : 200,
   "transactions" : []
}
</codeblock><p>Now
        perform the following operations in sequence:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Create a new transaction record that records the transaction information:<p><codeph> {
              "type" : "transaction", "fromacct" : "Alice", "toacct" : "James", "value" : 100,
              "status" : "waiting" } </codeph></p>
          <p>The core of the transaction record is the same,
            the difference is the use of a <codeph>status</codeph> field which will be used to
            monitor the progress of the transaction.</p><p>Record the ID of the transaction, for
            example, <codeph>transact_20120717163</codeph>.</p></li>
        <li>Set the value of the <codeph>status</codeph> field in the transaction document to
              ‘pending’:<p><codeph> { "type" : "transaction", "fromacct" : "Alice", "toacct" :
              "James", "value" : 100, "status" : "pending" } </codeph></p></li>
        <li>Find all transaction records in the <codeph>pending</codeph> state using a suitable
              view:<p><codeph> function(doc, meta) { if (doc.type &amp;&amp; doc.status &amp;&amp;
              doc.type == "transaction" &amp;&amp; doc.status == "pending" ) {
              emit([doc.fromacct,doc.toacct], doc.value); } } </codeph></p></li>
        <li>Update the record identified in <codeph>toacct</codeph> with the transaction
          information, ensuring that the transaction is not already pending:<p><codeph> { "type" :
              "account", "account" : "Alice", "value" : 100, "transactions" :
              ["transact_20120717163"] } </codeph></p><p>Repeat on the other account:</p>
          <p><codeph>
              { "type" : "account", "account" : "James", "value" : 200, "transactions" :
              ["transact_20120717163"] } </codeph></p></li>
        <li>Update the transaction record to mark that the records have been updated:<p><codeph> {
              "type" : "transaction", "fromacct" : "Alice", "toacct" : "James", "value" : 100,
              "status" : "committed" } </codeph></p></li>
        <li>Find all transaction records in the <codeph>committed</codeph> state using a suitable
              view:<p><codeph> function(doc, meta) { if (doc.type &amp;&amp; doc.status &amp;&amp;
              doc.type == "transaction" &amp;&amp; doc.status == "committed" ) { emit([doc.fromacct,
              doc.toacct], doc.value); } } </codeph></p><p>Update the source account record noted in
            the transaction and remove the transaction ID:</p><p><codeph> { "type" : "account",
              "account" : "Alice", "value" : 100, "transactions" : [] } </codeph></p><p>Repeat on
            the other account:</p><p><codeph> { "type" : "account", "account" : "James", "value" :
              200, "transactions" : [] } </codeph></p></li>
        <li>Update the transaction record state to ‘done’. This will remove the transaction from the
          two views used to identify unapplied, or uncommitted transactions.</li>
      </ol><p>Within this process, although there are multiple steps required, you can identify at
        each step whether a particular operation has taken place or not.</p><p>For example, if the
        transaction record is marked as ‘pending’, but the corresponding account records do not
        contain the transaction ID, then the record still needs to be updated. Since the account
        record can be updated using a single atomic operation, it is easy to determine if the record
        has been updated or not.</p><p>The result is that any sweep process that accesses the views
        defined in each step can determine whether the record needs updating. Equally, if an
        operation fails, a record of the transaction, and whether the update operation has been
        applied, also exists, allowing the changes to be reversed and backed out.</p></section>
  </body>
</topic>
