<?xml version='1.0' ?><!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA 1.1 Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="download-and-apiref">
	<title>Download and API Reference</title>
	<shortdesc>The Python SDK is available via pip, the Python package management system.</shortdesc>
	
	<body>
		
		<section>
			<title>API Reference</title>

				<p>You can find the latest API reference at <xref
				    href="http://pythonhosted.org/couchbase"
                    format="html" scope="external">http://pythonhosted.org/couchbase</xref>. Most of
                the API reference is also available via <codeph>pydoc</codeph>.</p>
			
		</section>
	
 <section><title>Installing the SDK</title><p>The SDK requires Python 2.6 or greater. Use
                    <codeph>python -V</codeph> to get the version of Python being used.
                    </p><p><b>Installation Instructions (Linux, OS X, other Unix-like
                systems)</b></p><ol id="ol_npr_qwm_2q">
                <li><xref href="../c-2.4/download-install.dita#c-download-install">Install the C  library</xref>. <p>
                        <note type="important">If you don't have the C library installed, the rest of this installation will not work. </note> </p><p>If you already have the C SDK 
                            installed, ensure the installed version is at least <b>2.5.0.</b>To determine the version, either query your package version, or run the <codeph>cbc</codeph>
                        command:<screen outputclass="language-bash">$ cbc version
cbc:
  Runtime: Version=2.5.3, Changeset=041e4d58d24ea3ba2b4c3e307ac7da90a28eba68
  Headers: Version=2.5.3, Changeset=041e4d58d24ea3ba2b4c3e307ac7da90a28eba68
  IO: Default=libevent, Current=libevent
  SSL: .. SUPPORTED</screen>Note
                        that depending on how your libcouchbase was installed, the <codeph>cbc</codeph> command might not be available and is not required for the Python SDK. </p></li>

                <li>Install the Python development files: <ul id="ul_awr_qwm_2q">
                        <li>For EL6-based RPM distributions (e.g. CentOS 6, RHEL 6):
                            <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ yum install python-devel</codeblock></li>
                        <li>For Debian-based systems (including Ubuntu):
                            <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ apt-get install python-dev</codeblock></li>
                        <li>For OS X, the Python development files are already included in the
                            Python distribution.</li>
                    </ul></li>
                <li>Install the Python SDK. The easiest way to do this is via the
                        <codeph>pip</codeph> tool:
                    <screen outputclass="language-bash">$ pip install couchbase</screen>Alternatively,
                    you can manually download the source package at <xref format="html"
                        scope="external" href="https://pypi.python.org/pypi/couchbase"
                        >PyPi</xref>.<note>If you get an error message like
                        <screen>  src/pycbc.h:25:10: fatal error: 'libcouchbase/couchbase.h' file not found
  #include &lt;libcouchbase/couchbase.h>
           ^
  1 error generated.
  error: command 'clang' failed with exit status 1</screen>then
                        you have not installed the C SDK. Please <xref
                            href="../c-2.4/download-install.dita#c-download-install">Install the C
                            library</xref> to fix this error.</note>
                </li>
                <li>Verify that your Python SDK is available and working by entering the following
                    command:
                    <screen outputclass="language-bash">$ python -c 'import couchbase'</screen> If
                    this command does not print any errors or exceptions, your Python SDK is
                    properly installed! </li>
            </ol><sectiondiv><b>Installation Instructions (Microsoft Windows)</b>
                <p>The process for installing on Windows involves downloading the correct installer
                    for your system and installing it. There are no additional dependencies, as the
                    C library is embedded into the SDK.</p><p>Go to the SDK's PyPi page (<xref
                        href="https://pypi.python.org/pypi/couchbase#downloads" format="html"
                        scope="external"/>) and download the executable installer corresponding to
                    your version and architecture of Python. Keep in mind that "32 bit" and "64 bit"
                    correspond to your <i>Python</i> version, not your operating system.</p><p>You
                    may verify your installation by importing the <codeph>couchbase</codeph> module
                    (as per instruction #4 for *nix).</p></sectiondiv></section>
        </body>
    </topic>
