<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_bhv_nhq_44">
 <title>Working with N1QL queries</title>
 <shortdesc>You can perform N1QL queries via the Python
        client.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
        
        <p>To issue N1QL queries, you should create a
				<apiname>couchbase.n1ql.N1QLQuery</apiname> object, and pass it (as the
				<parmname>query</parmname> keyword argument) to the <apiname>n1ql_query()</apiname>
			method in the <apiname>Bucket</apiname> class. Simple queries (that is, ones that are only
			strings and do not use placeholders) can be supplied directly to the
				<apiname>n1ql_query()</apiname> function, which will implicitly create the
				<apiname>N1QLQuery</apiname> object internally.</p>
        <p>The return value from <apiname>n1ql_query()</apiname> is a <apiname>N1QLRequest</apiname>
            object. Iterating over the object will yield the rows returned by the server for the
            given query (as a <codeph>dict</codeph>). Each row represents a row received for the
            query.</p>
        <p>As a convenience for queries which are not intended to yield multiple rows, you may use
            the returned <apiname>N1QLRequest</apiname> object's <apiname>execute()</apiname>
            method. For queries which are intended to return only a single result, you can use the
                <apiname>get_single_result()</apiname> method. Both of the aforementioned methods
            are wrappers that iterate over the object internally and are intended to provide
            additional clarity inside your application's
            code.<codeblock outputclass="language-python" spectitle="Simple N1QL Query">bkt.n1ql_query('CREATE PRIMARY INDEX ON default').execute()
for row in bkt.n1ql_query('SELECT * FROM default'):
    print row</codeblock></p>
        <p>You can use N1QL placeholders in the query. Placeholders allow you to specify variable
            constraints for an otherwise constant query. To use placeholders, manually construct an
            N1QLQuery object with the base query string, and simply use keyword and positional
            arguments for named or positional placeholders,
            respectively:<codeblock outputclass="language-python" spectitle="N1QL Query with placeholders">from couchbase.n1ql import N1QLQuery
# ...
q = N1QLQuery('SELECT fname, lname, age FROM default WHERE age > $age', age=22)
for row in bkt.n1ql_query(q):
    print row</codeblock></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
