<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_j1n_4pz_2q">
  <title>Setting up the project</title>
  <body>
    <p>In this section we’ll talk a bit about setting up your directory layout and adding some views
            in the server before we start dealing with the Python SDK and Flask itself.</p>
        <section><title>Directory Setup</title>Create a project directory named
				<codeph>beer</codeph>:<screen outputclass="language-bash">$ mkdir beer
$ cd beer
$ mkdir templates
$ mkdir templates/beer
$ mkdir templates/brewery
$ mkdir static
$ mkdir static/js
$ mkdir static/css</screen><p>Showing
				your directory contents displays something like
				this:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ find . -type d
./static
./static/js
./static/css
./templates
./templates/brewery
./templates/beer</codeblock><p>To
				make the application look pretty, we’re incorporating jQuery and Twitter Bootstrap. You
				can either download the libraries and put them in their appropriate
					<filepath>css</filepath> and <filepath>js</filepath> directories (under
					<filepath>static</filepath> ), or clone the project repository and use it from there.
				If you followed the quick start steps, you already have the files in your
					<filepath>beersample-python</filepath> directory. Either way, make sure you have the
				following files in place: </p><ul id="ul_f2v_fqz_2q">
				<li>
					<filepath>static/css/beersample.css</filepath>
				</li>
				<li>
					<filepath>static/css/bootstrap.min.css</filepath> (the minified twitter bootstrap
					library) </li>
				<li>
					<filepath>static/css/bootstrap-responsive.min.css</filepath> (the minified responsive
					layout classes from bootstrap) </li>
				<li>
					<filepath>static/js/beersample.js</filepath>
				</li>
				<li>
					<filepath>static/js/jquery.min.js</filepath> (the jQuery javascript library) </li>
			</ul><p>From here on, you should have a bare-bones web application configured that has all
				the dependencies included. We’ll now move on and configure the
					<codeph>beer-sample</codeph> bucket the way we need it. </p></section>
        <section>
            <title>Setting up the views</title>
            <p>The <codeph>beer-sample</codeph> bucket comes with a small set of predefined views,
                but to make our application function correctly we need some more. This is also a
                good chance to explore the view management possibilities inside the Web-UI. </p>
            <p>Because we want to list beers and breweries by name, we need to define one view for
                each. Head over to the Web-UI and click on the <userinput>Views</userinput> menu.
                Select <userinput>beer-sample</userinput> from the drop-down list to switch to the
                correct bucket. Now click on <userinput>Development Views</userinput> and then
                    <userinput>Create Development View</userinput> to define your first view. You
                need to give it the name of both the design document and the actual view. Insert the
                following names: </p>
            <ul id="ul_z4l_gld_fq">
                <li>Design Document Name: <userinput>_design/dev_beer</userinput></li>
                <li>View Name: <userinput>by_name</userinput></li>
            </ul>
            <p>The next step is to define the <codeph>map</codeph> and (optional)
                    <codeph>reduce</codeph> functions. In our examples, we won’t use the reduce
                functions at all but you can play around and see what happens. Insert the following
                map function (that’s JavaScript) and click <codeph>Save</codeph>. </p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">function (doc, meta) {
  if(doc.type &amp;&amp; doc.type == "beer") {
    emit(doc.name, null);
  }
}</codeblock>
            <p>Every map function takes the full document ( <codeph>doc</codeph> ) and its
                associated metadata ( <codeph>meta</codeph> ) as the arguments. You are then free to
                inspect this data and emit a result when you want to have it in your index. In our
                case, we emit the name of the beer ( <codeph>doc.name</codeph> ) when the document
                both has a <codeph>type</codeph> field and the <codeph>type</codeph> is
                    <codeph>beer</codeph>. We don’t need to emit a value — that’s why we are using
                    <codeph>null</codeph> here. It’s always advisable to keep the index as small as
                possible. Resist the urge to include the full document through <codeph>emit(meta.id,
                    doc)</codeph>, because it will increase the size of your view indexes. If you
                need to access the full document (or large parts), then use
                    <codeph>include_docs</codeph> in the <codeph>query</codeph> method, which
                returns <codeph>ViewRow</codeph> objects together with their documents. You can also
                call <codeph>cb.get(row.docid)</codeph> to get the individual doc for a single row.
                The resulting retrieval of the document might be slightly out of sync with your
                view, but it will be fast and efficient. </p>
            <p>Now we need to define a view for our breweries. You already know how to do this —
                here is all the information you need to create a brewery view:</p>
            <ul id="ul_sql_gld_fq">
                <li>Design Document Name: _<userinput>design/dev_brewery</userinput>
                </li>
                <li>View Name: <userinput>by_name</userinput></li>
                <li>Map Function:
                    <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">function (doc, meta) {
    if(doc.type &amp;&amp; doc.type == "brewery") {
        emit(doc.name, null);
    }
}</codeblock>The
                    final step is to push the design documents in production. While the design
                    documents are in development, the index is applied only on the local node.
                    Because we want to have the index on the whole dataset, click the
                        <userinput>Publish</userinput> button on both design documents (and accept
                    any pop-up windows that warn you about overriding the old design
                    documents).</li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        <section><title>Flask application skeleton</title> We’ll be showing bits and pieces of the
            web app as it pertains to specific sections. The entire file is less than 300 lines
            long, and you can inspect it by looking into the <codeph>beer.py</codeph> file in the
            repository.  First, our imports. We need some extra imports to be able to handle
            exceptions properly and let us build better view queries.
            <codeblock outputclass="language-python" spectitle="beer.py (imports)">from collections import namedtuple
import json

from Flask import Flask, request, redirect, abort, render_template

from couchbase.bucket import Bucket
from couchbase.exceptions import KeyExistsError, NotFoundError
from couchbase.views.iterator import RowProcessor
from couchbase.views.params import UNSPEC, Query</codeblock>
            Then, we want to set some constants for our
            application:<codeblock outputclass="language-python" spectitle="beer.py (configuration)">CONNSTR = 'couchbase://localhost/beer-sample'
ENTRIES_PER_PAGE = 30</codeblock>The
                <codeph>ENTRIES_PER_PAGE</codeph> variable is used later on to configure how many
            beers and breweries to show in the search results.  Now, we’re ready to create our Flask
            application
            instance:<codeblock spectitle="beer.py (creating the application)" outputclass="language-python">app = Flask(__name__, static_url_path='')
app.config.from_object(__name__)</codeblock></section>
        <section>The first line creates a new Flask application. The first argument is the module in
            which the application is defined. Because we’re using only a single file as our
            application, we can use <codeph>__name__</codeph>, which expands to the name of the
            current file being executed (minus the .py suffix). The second argument instructs Flask
            to treat unrouted URLs as being requests for files located in the static directory we
            created earlier. This allows our templates to load the required <codeph>.js</codeph> and
                <codeph>.css</codeph> files. The second line creates a configuration object for our
            app. The argument is the name of the module to scan for configuration directives. Flask
            scans this module for variable names in <codeph><i>UPPER_CASE</i></codeph> and places
            them in the <codeph>app.config</codeph> dictionary.</section>
        <section>Finally, let's define a function to give us a database connection</section>
        <section><codeblock outputclass="language-python" spectitle="beer.py (creating the connection)">def connect_db():
    return Bucket(app.config['CONNSTR'])

# Declare a global
db = connect_db()</codeblock>You
            already know how to connect to a Couchbase cluster, so we’ll skip the explanation
            here.The module-level db variable is set to be the Connection object. In larger
            applications this is not a good idea, but we can get away with it here because this is a
            simple app. </section>
  </body>
</topic>
