<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_iy1_113_fq">
	<title>Managing Beers</title>
	<body>
		<p>In this section we’ll show the construction of the web app with respect to managing beers.
			We’ll be able to list, inspect, edit, create, search, and delete beers.</p>

		<section id="showing-beers">
			<title>Showing Beers</title>

			<p>Now we’re finally getting into the cooler stuff of this tutorial. First, we’ll implement
				several classes for our pages to use.</p>
			<codeblock spectitle="beer.py (custom Beer row class and processing)" outputclass="language-python">class Beer(object):
    def __init__(self, id, name, doc=None):
        self.id = id
        self.name = name
        self.brewery = None
        self.doc = doc

    def __getattr__(self, name):
        if not self.doc:
            return ""
        return self.doc.get(name, "")

class BeerListRowProcessor(object):
    """
    This is the row processor for listing all beers (with their brewery IDs).
    """
    def handle_rows(self, rows, connection, include_docs):
        ret = []
        by_docids = {}

        for r in rows:
            b = Beer(r['id'], r['key'])
            ret.append(b)
            by_docids[b.id] = b

        keys_to_fetch = [ x.id for x in ret ]
        docs = connection.get_multi(keys_to_fetch, quiet=True)

        for beer_id, doc in docs.items():
            if not doc.success:
                ret.remove(beer)
                continue

            beer = by_docids[beer_id]
            beer.brewery_id = doc.value['brewery_id']

        return ret</codeblock>
			<p>First, we declare a simple <codeph>Beer</codeph> object. This app isn’t too fancy and we
				could’ve just used a simple <codeph>dict</codeph>. However, it allows us to demonstrate
				the use of the <codeph>RowProcessor</codeph> interface. </p>
			<p>In the beer listing page, we want to display each beer along with a link to the brewery
				that produces it. However, we’ve defined the <codeph>beer/by_name</codeph> view to
				return only the name of the beer. To obtain the brewery, we need to fetch each beer
				document and examine it. The document contains the Brewery ID that we need later. </p>
			<p>The <codeph>BeerListRowProcessor</codeph> is an implementation of the
					<codeph>RowProcessor</codeph> interface that operates on the returned view rows: For
				each raw JSON row, it creates a new <codeph>Beer</codeph> object. The first argument is
				the document ID, which is used to provide a link to display more information about the
				beer. The second argument is the name of the beer itself, which we use in the beer list
				on the webpage. </p>
			<p>We also create a local variable called <codeph>by_docids</codeph> that allows us to get
				a <codeph>Beer</codeph> object by its document ID. </p>
			<p>After we’ve created all the beers, we create a list of document IDs to fetch by using
				list comprehension. We pass this list to <codeph>get_multi</codeph> (passing
					<codeph>quiet=True</codeph>, because there might be some inconsistencies between the
				view indexes and the actual documents). While we could have made this simpler by
				performing an individual <codeph>get</codeph> on each <codeph>beer.id</codeph>, that
				would be less efficient in terms of network usage.</p>
			<p>Now that we have the beer documents, it’s time to set each beer’s
					<codeph>brewery_id</codeph> to its relevant value: We first check to see that each
				document was successful in being retrieved; then we look up the corresponding
					<codeph>Beer</codeph> object by getting it from the <codeph>by_docids</codeph>
				dictionary using the <codeph>beer_id</codeph> as the key; then, we extract the
					<codeph>brewery_id</codeph> field from the document and place it into the
					<codeph>Beer</codeph> object. </p>
			<p>Finally, we return the list of populated beers. The <codeph>View</codeph> object
				(returned by the <codeph>query</codeph> function) now yields results as we iterate over
				it. </p>
			<p>Before we forget, let’s put this all together:</p>
			<codeblock spectitle="beer.py (showing beer listings)" outputclass="language-python">@app.route('/beers')
def beers():
    rp = BeerListRowProcessor()
    rows = db.query("beer", "by_name",
                    limit=ENTRIES_PER_PAGE,
                    row_processor=rp)

    return render_template('beer/index.html', results=rows)</codeblock>
			<p>This code tells Flask to route requests to <codeph>/beers</codeph> to this function.
				Inside the function it creates an instance of the <codeph>BeerListRowProcessor</codeph>
				class we just defined; finally it executes a view query using the <codeph>query</codeph>
				method, passing it the name of the design and view ( <codeph>beer</codeph> and
					<codeph>by_name</codeph>, respsectively). We set the <codeph>limit</codeph> directive
				to the aforementioned <codeph>ENTRIES_PER_PAGE</codeph> directive, to avoid flooding a
				single webpage with many results. The last parameter in the <apiname>query</apiname>
				method call instructs the client use our own <codeph>BeerListRowProcessor</codeph> for
				processing the results. </p>
			<p>At the end, the function directs the template engine to render the
					<codeph>beer/index.html</codeph> template, setting the template variable
					<codeph>rows</codeph> to the iterable returned by the <codeph>query</codeph>
				function. </p>
			<p>Here is the <codeph>beer/index.html</codeph> template: </p>
			<codeblock spectitle="templates/beer/index.html"><![CDATA[{% extends "layout.html" %}
{% block body %}

<h3>Browse Beers</h3>
<form class="navbar-search pull-left">
    <input id="beer-search" type="text" class="search-query" placeholder="Search for Beers">
</form>


<table id="beer-table" class="table table-striped">
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Name</th>
            <th>Brewery</th>
            <th></th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        {% for beer in results %}
        <tr>
            <td><a href="/beers/show/{{beer.id}}">{{beer.name}}</a></td>
            <td><a href="/breweries/show/{{beer.brewery_id}}">To Brewery</a></td>
            <td>
                <a class="btn btn-small btn-warning" href="/beers/edit/{{beer.id}}">Edit</a>
                <a class="btn btn-small btn-danger" href="/beers/delete/{{beer.id}}">Delete</a>
            </td>
        </tr>
        {% endfor %}
    </tbody>
</table>

<div>
    <a class="btn btn-small btn-success" href="/beers/create">Add Beer</a>
</div>

{% endblock %}
]]></codeblock>
			<p>We’re using <i>Jinja</i>
				<codeph>{% for %}</codeph> blocks to iterate and emit a fragment of HTML for each
					<codeph>Beer</codeph> object returned by the query. </p>
			<p>Navigate to <codeph>localhost:5000/beers</codeph>, to see a listing of beers. Each beer
				has `To Brewery <codeph>,</codeph>Edit <codeph>, and</codeph>Delete` buttons. </p>
			<p>On the bottom of the page, you can also see an <codeph>Add Beer</codeph> button, which
				allows you to define new beers. </p>
			<p>Let’s implement the <codeph>Delete</codeph> button next! </p>

		</section>


		<section id="deleting-beers">
			<title>Deleting Beers</title>

			<p>Due to the simplicity of Couchbase and Flask, we can implement a single method to delete
				both beers and breweries.</p>
			<codeblock spectitle="beer.py (deleting a beer)">@app.route('&lt;otype&gt;/delete/&lt;id>')
def delete_object(otype, id):
    try:
        db.delete(id)
        return redirect('/welcome')

    except NotFoundError:
        return "No such {0} '{1}'".format(otype, id), 404</codeblock>
			<p>Here we tell Flask to route any URL that has as its second component the string
					<codeph>delete</codeph> to this method. The paths in <codeph>&lt;angle
					brackets&gt;</codeph> are routing tokens that Flask passes to the handler as
				arguments. This means that URLs such as <codeph>/beers/delete/foobar</codeph> and
					<codeph>/foo/delete/whatever</codeph> are all routed here.</p>
			<p>When we get an ID, we try to delete it by using the <codeph>delete</codeph> method in a
					<codeph>try</codeph> block. If successful, we redirect to the welcome page, but if
				the key does not exist, we return with an error message and a <codeph>404</codeph>
				status code.</p>
			<p>You can now access this page by going to
					<codeph>localhost:5000/beers/delete/nonexistent</codeph> and get a 404 error. Or you
				can delete a beer by clicking on one of the <codeph>Delete</codeph> buttons in the
					<codeph>/beers</codeph> page! </p>
			<p>If you find that a beer is still displayed after you click the delete button, you can
				refresh the browser page to verify that the beer has been deleted.</p>
			<p>Another way to verify that a beer has been deleted is by clicking the delete button
				again and getting a 404 error.</p>

		</section>

		<section id="displaying-beers">
			<title>Displaying Beers</title>

			<p>Here we demonstrate how you can display the beers. In this case, we display a page
				showing all the fields and values of a given beer.</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="" spectitle="beer.py (showing a single beer)">@app.route('/beers/show/&lt;beer_id>')
def show_beer(beer_id):
    doc = db.get(beer_id, quiet=True)
    if not doc.success:
        return "No such beer {0}".format(beer_id), 404

    return render_template(
        'beer/show.html',
        beer=Beer(beer_id, doc.value['name'], doc.value))</codeblock>
			<p>Like for the <codeph>delete</codeph> action, we first check to see that the beer exists.
				We are passed the beer ID as the last part of the URL - this is passed to us as the
					<codeph>beer_id</codeph>. </p>
			<p>In order to display the information for the given beer ID, we simply call the
				connection’s <codeph>get</codeph> method with the <codeph>beer_id</codeph> argument. We
				also pass the <codeph>quiet</codeph> parameter so that we don’t receive an exception if
				the beer does not exist; we then check to see that the <codeph>success</codeph> property
				of the returned <codeph>Result</codeph> object is true: If it isn’t then the beer does
				not exist and we return an HTTP <codeph>404</codeph> error; otherwise we construct a new
					<codeph>Beer</codeph> object; passing it the ID and the <codeph>name</codeph> field
				within the value dictionary.</p>
			<p>At the end, the <codeph>Beer</codeph> object is passed to the
					<codeph>templates/beer/show.html</codeph> template which we’ll show here: </p>
			<codeblock spectitle="templates/beer/show.html">
{% extends "layout.html" %}
{% block body %}

{% set display = beer.doc %}
{% set brewery_id = display['brewery_id'] %}

&lt;h3&gt;Show Details for Beer "{{beer.name}}"&lt;/h3&gt;
&lt;table class="table table-striped"&gt;
    &lt;tbody&gt;
        &lt;tr&gt;
            &lt;td&gt;&lt;strong&gt;brewery_id&lt;/strong&gt;&lt;/td&gt;
            &lt;td&gt;&lt;a href="/breweries/show/{{brewery_id}}"&gt;{{brewery_id}}&lt;/a&gt;&lt;/td&gt;
        &lt;/tr&gt;
        {% for k, v in display.items() if not k == "brewery_id" %}
        &lt;tr&gt;
            &lt;td&gt;&lt;strong&gt;{{k}}&lt;/strong&gt;&lt;/td&gt;
            &lt;td&gt;{{v}}&lt;/td&gt;
        &lt;/tr&gt;
        {% endfor %}
    &lt;/tbody&gt;
&lt;/table&gt;

&lt;a class="btn btn-medium btn-warning"
    href="/beers/edit/{{beer.id}}"&gt;Edit&lt;/a&gt;
&lt;a class="btn btn-medium btn-danger"
    href="/beers/delete/{{beer.id}}"&gt;Delete&lt;/a&gt;

{% endblock %}</codeblock>
			<p>Here we make the <codeph>display</codeph> variable in a special <codeph>{% set
					%}</codeph> directive. This makes dealing with the rest of the code simpler. </p>
			<p>The next thing we do is extract the <codeph>brewery_id</codeph>, and create a special
				entry with a link pointing to the page to display the actual brewery. </p>
			<p>Then we is iterate over the rest of the fields (omitting the brewery ID), printing out
				the key and value of each.</p>
			<p>Finally, we provide links at the bottom to <codeph>Edit</codeph> and
					<codeph>Delete</codeph> the beer. </p>

		</section>


		<section id="editing-beers">
			<title>Editing Beers</title>
			<codeblock spectitle="beer.py (beer edit page)">def normalize_beer_fields(form):
    doc = {}
    for k, v in form.items():
        name_base, fieldname = k.split('_', 1)
        if name_base != 'beer':
            continue

        doc[fieldname] = v

    if not 'name' in doc or not doc['name']:
        return (None, ("Must have name", 400))

    if not 'brewery_id' in doc or not doc['brewery_id']:
        return (None, ("Must have brewery ID", 400))

    if not db.get(doc['brewery_id'], quiet=True).success:
        return (None,
                ("Brewery ID {0} not found".format(doc['brewery_id']), 400))

    return doc, None

@app.route('/beers/edit/&lt;beer&gt;', methods=['GET'])
def edit_beer_display(beer):
    bdoc = db.get(beer, quiet=True)
    if not bdoc.success:
        return "No Such Beer", 404

    return render_template('beer/edit.html',
                           beer=Beer(beer, bdoc.value['name'], bdoc.value),
                           is_create=False)


@app.route('/beers/edit/&lt;beer&gt;', methods=['POST'])
def edit_beer_submit(beer):
    doc, err = normalize_beer_fields(request.form)

    if not doc:
        return err

    db.upsert(beer, doc)
    return redirect('/beers/show/' + beer)</codeblock>
			<p>We define two handlers for editing. The first handler is the <codeph>GET</codeph> method
				for <codeph>/beers/edit/&lt;beer&gt;</codeph>, which displays a nice HTML form that we
				can use to edit the beer. It passes the following parameters to the template: the
					<codeph>Beer</codeph> object and a Boolean that indicates this is <i>not</i> a new
				beer (because the same template is also used for the <codeph>Create Beer</codeph> form). </p>
			<p>The second handler is the <codeph>POST</codeph> method, which validates the input. The
				post handler calls the <codeph>normalize_beer_fields</codeph> function, which converts
				the form fields into properly formed names for the beer document, checks to see that the
				beer has a valid <codeph>name</codeph>, and checks to see that a
					<codeph>brewery_id</codeph> is specified and that it indeed exists. If all the checks
				pass, the function returns a tuple of ( <codeph>doc</codeph>, <codeph>None</codeph> ).
				The <codeph>POST</codeph> handler checks whether the second element of the returned
				tuple is false. If it is not false, then it’s an error code, and the first element is
				the error message. Otherwise, the first element is the document. It then sets the
				document in Couchbase by using the <codeph>set</codeph> method. </p>
			<p>The template is rather wordy because we enumerate all the possible fields with a nice
				description.</p>
			<codeblock spectitle="templates/beer/edit.html">
{% extends "layout.html" %}
{% block body %}

{% if is_create %}
&lt;h3&gt;Create Beer&lt;/h3&gt;
{% else %}
&lt;h3&gt;Editing {{beer.name}}&lt;/h3&gt;
{% endif %}

&lt;form method="post" action=""&gt;
  &lt;fieldset&gt;
    &lt;legend&gt;General Info&lt;/legend&gt;
    &lt;div class="span12"&gt;
      &lt;div class="span6"&gt;
        &lt;label&gt;Name&lt;/label&gt;
        &lt;input type="text" name="beer_name" placeholder="The name of the beer." value="{{beer.name}}"&gt;

        &lt;label&gt;Description&lt;/label&gt;
        &lt;input type="text" name="beer_description" placeholder="A short description." value="{{beer.description}}"&gt;
      &lt;/div&gt;
      &lt;div class="span6"&gt;
        &lt;label&gt;Style&lt;/label&gt;
        &lt;input type="text" name="beer_style" placeholder="Bitter? Sweet? Hoppy?" value="{{beer.style}}"&gt;

        &lt;label&gt;Category&lt;/label&gt;
        &lt;input type="text" name="beer_category" placeholder="Ale? Stout? Lager?" value="{{beer.category}}"&gt;
      &lt;/div&gt;
    &lt;/div&gt;
  &lt;/fieldset&gt;
  &lt;fieldset&gt;
    &lt;legend&gt;Details&lt;/legend&gt;
    &lt;div class="span12"&gt;
      &lt;div class="span6"&gt;
        &lt;label&gt;Alcohol (ABV)&lt;/label&gt;
        &lt;input type="text" name="beer_abv" placeholder="The beer's ABV" value="{{beer.abv}}"&gt;

        &lt;label&gt;Biterness (IBU)&lt;/label&gt;
        &lt;input type="text" name="beer_ibu" placeholder="The beer's IBU" value="{{beer.ibu}}"&gt;
      &lt;/div&gt;
      &lt;div class="span6"&gt;
        &lt;label&gt;Beer Color (SRM)&lt;/label&gt;
        &lt;input type="text" name="beer_srm" placeholder="The beer's SRM" value="{{beer.srm}}"&gt;

        &lt;label&gt;Universal Product Code (UPC)&lt;/label&gt;
        &lt;input type="text" name="beer_upc" placeholder="The beer's UPC" value="{{beer.upc}}"&gt;
      &lt;/div&gt;
    &lt;/div&gt;
  &lt;/fieldset&gt;
  &lt;fieldset&gt;
    &lt;legend&gt;Brewery&lt;/legend&gt;
    &lt;div class="span12"&gt;
      &lt;div class="span6"&gt;
        &lt;label&gt;Brewery&lt;/label&gt;
        &lt;input type="text" name="beer_brewery_id" placeholder="The brewery" value="{{beer.brewery_id}}"&gt;
      &lt;/div&gt;
    &lt;/div&gt;
  &lt;/fieldset&gt;
  &lt;div class="form-actions"&gt;
      &lt;button type="submit" class="btn btn-primary"&gt;Save changes&lt;/button&gt;
  &lt;/div&gt;
&lt;/form&gt;

{% endblock %}</codeblock>
			<p>The template first checks the <codeph>is_create</codeph> variable. If it’s
					<codeph>False</codeph>, then we’re editing an existing beer, and the caption is
				filled with that name. Otherwise, it’s titled as <codeph>Create Beer</codeph>. </p>

		</section>

		<section id="creating-beers">
			<title>Creating Beers</title>

			<p>Creating beers is largely the same as editing beers:</p>
			<codeblock spectitle="beer.py (create beer page)">
@app.route('/beers/create')
def create_beer_display():
    return render_template('beer/edit.html', beer=Beer('', ''), is_create=True)


@app.route('/beers/create', methods=['POST'])
def create_beer_submit():
    doc, err = normalize_beer_fields(request.form)

    if not doc:
        return err

    id = '{0}-{1}'.format(doc['brewery_id'],
                          doc['name'].replace(' ', '_').lower())

    try:
        db.insert(id, doc)
        return redirect('/beers/show/' + id)

    except KeyExistsError:
        return "Beer already exists!", 400</codeblock>
			<p>Here we display the same form as the one for editing beers, except we set the
					<codeph>is_create</codeph> parameter to True, and pass an empty <codeph>Beer</codeph>
				object. This is necessary because the template still tries to populate the form fields
				with <i>existing</i> values. </p>
			<p>In the <codeph>POST</codeph> handler, we call <codeph>normalize_beer_field</codeph> as
				above when editing beers. </p>
			<p>Because we’re creating a <i>new</i> beer, we use the <codeph>add</codeph> method
				instead. This raisew an exception if the beer already exists. We catch this and display
				it to the user. </p>
			<p>If everything went well, the user is redirected to the beer display page for the newly
				created beer.</p>

		</section>

		<section id="searching-beers">
			<title>Searching Beers</title>

			<p>In the beer listing page above, you might have noticed a search box at the top. We can
				use it to dynamically filter our table based on user input. We’ll use Javascript at the
				client layer to perform the querying and filtering, and views with range queries at the
				server (Flask) layer to return the results.</p>
			<p>Before we implement the Python-level search method, we need to put the following in the
					<codeph>static/js/beersample.js</codeph> file (if it’s not there already) to listen
				on search box changes and update the table with the resulting JSON (which is returned
				from the search method): </p>
			<codeblock spectitle="static/js/beersample.js (snippet)">$(document).ready(function() {

    /**
     * AJAX Beer Search Filter
     */
    $("#beer-search").keyup(function() {
       var content = $("#beer-search").val();
       if(content.length &gt;= 0) {
           $.getJSON("/beers/search", {"value": content}, function(data) {
               $("#beer-table tbody tr").remove();
               for(var i=0;i&lt;data.length;i++) {
                   var html = "&lt;tr&gt;";
                   html += "&lt;td&gt;&lt;a href=\"/beers/show/"+data[i].id+"\"&gt;"+data[i].name+"&lt;/a&gt;&lt;/td&gt;";
                   html += "&lt;td&gt;&lt;a href=\"/breweries/show/"+data[i].brewery+"\"&gt;To Brewery&lt;/a&gt;&lt;/td&gt;";
                   html += "&lt;td&gt;";
                   html += "&lt;a class=\"btn btn-small btn-warning\" href=\"/beers/edit/"+data[i].id+"\"&gt;Edit&lt;/a&gt;\n";
                   html += "&lt;a class=\"btn btn-small btn-danger\" href=\"/beers/delete/"+data[i].id+"\"&gt;Delete&lt;/a&gt;";
                   html += "&lt;/td&gt;";
                   html += "&lt;/tr&gt;";
                   $("#beer-table tbody").append(html);
               }
           });
       }
    });
});</codeblock>
			<p>The code waits for keyup events on the search field, and if they happen, it issues an
				AJAX query on the search function within the app. The search handler computes the result
				(using views) and returns it as JSON. The JavaScript then clears the table, iterates
				over the results, and creates new rows.</p>
			<p>The search handler looks like this:</p>
			<codeblock spectitle="beer.py (ajax search response)">
def return_search_json(ret):
    response = app.make_response(json.dumps(ret))
    response.headers['Content-Type'] = 'application/json'
    return response

@app.route('/beers/search')
def beer_search():
    value = request.args.get('value')
    q = Query()
    q.mapkey_range = [value, value + Query.STRING_RANGE_END]
    q.limit = ENTRIES_PER_PAGE

    ret = []

    rp = BeerListRowProcessor()
    res = db.query("beer", "by_name",
                   row_processor=rp,
                   query=q,
                   include_docs=True)

    for beer in res:
        ret.append({'id' : beer.id,
                    'name' : beer.name,
                    'brewery' : beer.brewery_id})

    return return_search_json(ret)</codeblock>
			<p>The <codeph>beer_search</codeph> function first extracts the user input by examining the
				query string from the request. </p>
			<p>It then creates a <codeph>Query</codeph> object. The <codeph>Query</codeph> object's
					<codeph>mapkey_range</codeph> property is set to a list of two elements; the first is
				the user input, and the second is the user input with the magic
					<codeph>STRING_RANGE_END</codeph> string appended to it. This form of range indicates
				that all keys that start with the user input ( <codeph>value</codeph> ) are returned. If
				we just provided a single element, the results would also contain matches that are
				lexically greater than the user input; if we just provided the same value for the second
				and first elements, only items that match the string exactly are returned. </p>
			<p>The special <codeph>STRING_RANGE_END</codeph> is actually a <codeph>u"\u0FFF"</codeph>
				UTF-8 character, which for the view engine means "end here." You need to get used to it
				a bit, but it’s actually very neat and efficient. </p>
			<p>We re-use our <codeph>BeerListRowProcessor</codeph> class to filter the results here
				(because the data required is the same as that of the beer listing (
					<codeph>beer/index.html</codeph> ) page. </p>
			<p>However we need to return a JSON array of</p>
			<codeblock>
{ "id" : "beer_id", "name" : "beer_name", "brewery" : "the_brewery_id" }</codeblock>
			<p>so we need to convert the rows into JSON first. This is done by the
					<codeph>return_search_json</codeph> function. </p>
			<p>Now your search box should work nicely.</p>

		</section>
	</body>

</topic>
