<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_qsx_2dv_vs">
  <title>Installing on Windows </title>
  <shortdesc>Installation using a package management system on Windows.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>This installation guide only supports both 32 and 64-bit systems. Windows 7 and 8 are
      supported only for development purposes. See <xref href="install-platforms.dita#topic1634"
        >Supported platforms</xref> for details. </p>
    <section>
      <title>Prerequisites</title>
      <p>To install Couchbase Server on Windows, you need to perform following prerequisites: </p>
      <ol id="ol_uvd_nbv_vs">
        <li>Make sure that you have no anti-virus software running on the machine before you start
          the installation process.</li>
        <li>Verify that you have administrator privileges on the machine where you are performing
          the installation.</li>
        <li>By default, on Windows the TCP/IP has default number of ports available for client
          communication. <p>You need to follow the information provided in <xref
              href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa560610(v=bts.20).aspx" format="html"
              scope="external">Avoiding TCP/IP Port Exhaustion</xref> to adjust the configuration
            and increase the number of available ports.</p></li>
        <li>By default, the Windows system does not provide an adequate number of ephemeral ports
          for Couchbase Server clusters. Without the correct number of open ephemeral ports, you can
          experience errors during rebalance, timeouts on clients, and failed backups. <p>The
            Couchbase Server installer will automatically check for your current port setting and
            adjust it if needed. See <xref href="https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/kb/196271"
              format="html" scope="external">Microsoft KB-196271</xref>. </p></li>
      </ol>
      <note type="important">Couchbase Server uses the Microsoft C++ redistributable package, which
        is automatically downloaded during installation. However, if another application on your
        machine is already using the package, your installation process can fail. To make sure that
        your installation process completes successfully, shut down all other running applications
        during installation. For Windows 2008, you must upgrade your Windows Server 2008 R2
        installation with Service Pack 1 installed before running Couchbase Server. You can obtain
        Service Pack 1 from <xref
          href="https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ff817647(v=ws.10).aspx" format="html"
          scope="external">Microsoft TechNet</xref>. </note>
    </section>
    
    
    <section><title>Downloading on Windows Systems</title>
      <p>You can download Couchbase Server directly using the <cmdname>wget.exe</cmdname> command for
        Windows or Powershell scripting. </p>
      <p>The basic syntax of the <cmdname>wget</cmdname> command is:
        <codeblock>$ wget [option]... [url]...</codeblock>For example, the following command downloads a
        version of Couchbase Server and that runs on Windows Server 2012 R2:
        <codeblock>$ wget.exe --no-check-certificate http://packages.couchbase.com/releases/<varname>version</varname>/couchbase-server-enterprise-<varname>version</varname>-windows_amd64.exe </codeblock></p>
      
      
      
      
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
