<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA General Task//EN" "generalTask.dtd">
<task id="task_on3_yf3_dq">
    <title>Installing with UI or CLI</title>
    <shortdesc>To install Couchbase Server on Mac OSX use the GUI or the command line
        interface.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <ol>
                <li>Locate the downloaded Couchbase Server <codeph>.zip</codeph> file, which
                    typically is located in the default <filepath>/Downloads</filepath> folder.</li>
                    <li>Double-click the downloaded <codeph>.zip</codeph> installation file to extract the server. This creates a
                        single folder, the <codeph>Couchbase Server.app</codeph> application.</li>
                    <li>Drag-and-drop <codeph>Couchbase Server.app</codeph> to your chosen
                    installation folder, such as the system <filepath>/Applications</filepath>
                    folder.</li>
                </ol><p>After the installation completes, double-click on <codeph>Couchbase Server.app</codeph> to start
                    Couchbase Server. The Couchbase Server icon appears in the menu bar on the right-hand side. If the server was
                    not configured, the setup process can be completed from the Couchbase Web Console.</p>
                <p>Couchbase Server runs as a background application. Click on the icon in the menu bar
                    for list of operations that can be performed.</p>
                <p>The command line interface (CLI) tools are included in the Couchbase Server
                application directory. Access the CLI from a terminal window and use the full path
                of the Couchbase Server installation. This is
                    <filepath>/Applications/Couchbase Server.app/Contents/Resources/couchbase-core/bin/</filepath>
                by default.</p>
            <note type="attention">The default Couchbase Server administrator user cr5edentials are
                as follows:
                <ul>
                    <li>Username: <userinput>Administrator</userinput></li>
                    <li>Password: <userinput>password</userinput>. </li>
                </ul></note>
            <p>Change the username and password to your preferred values immediately after initial login 
                to the Couchbase Web Console with the default credentials.</p>
        </context>
    </taskbody>
</task>
