<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic8026">
 <title>Red Hat and CentOS Installation</title>
 <shortdesc>Couchbase Server supports Red Hat (RHEL) and RHEL-based operating systems such as CentOS.</shortdesc>
 <body>
  <p>Before you start with the installation, ensure that dependency checking tool
        <cmdname>pkgconfig</cmdname> is installed. The Couchbase Server package requires this
      package to verify certain package dependencies have been met.  </p>
  <section><title>Check OpenSSL Dependency</title></section>
  <p>The Couchbase Server RPM performs dependency checks using <codeph>pkgconfig</codeph> for
   RHEL. Verify that <codeph>pkgconfig</codeph> is installed, and install it if necessary:</p>
  <p><codeblock>sudo yum install -y pkgconfig</codeblock> Upon successful installation, the
   following output appears:
   <codeblock>Loaded plugins .... Installed: pkgconfig.x86_64 1:0.21-2.el5 Complete!</codeblock></p>
  <note type="important">Please ensure that you are running OpenSSL v1.0.1g or higher. On Monday,
   April 7th, 2014, an OpenSSL vulnerability was disclosed which has been called one of the worst
   security holes in recent internet history. The bug, called the Heartbleed bug, was introduced in
   OpenSSL version 1.0.1. It has been in the wild since March of 2012 and is patched with OpenSSL
   version 1.0.1g released on April 7th, 2014. The problem, tagged CVE-2014-0160, is described in
   detail in this <xref href="https://web.nvd.nist.gov/view/vuln/detail?vulnId=CVE-2014-0160"
    format="html" scope="external">NIST article</xref>. </note>
  
  <p>For CentOS systems, you can query the version of the OpenSSL package installed on your system
   by typing: <codeblock> rpm -q -a | grep "openssl"</codeblock></p>
  <p>You should receive output that looks like this:
   <codeblock> openssl-1.0.1e-16.el6_5.7.x86_64</codeblock></p>
  <p>If you are on one of the supported distros, ensure that your OpenSSL version is up-to-date. 
   If your distribution is not supported anymore, 
   it is highly recommended that you transition to a supported operating system due to this bug's severity.
  </p>

 
 </body>
 
 
 
 
</topic>
