<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_pqg_nlg_xs">
  <title>Index Service Nodes </title> 
  <shortdesc>A node running the Index Service must be sized properly to create and maintain
    secondary indexes and to perform index scan for N1QL queries.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p> Similarly to the nodes running the data service, there is a set of questions you need to
      answer to take care of your application needs: </p>
    <ol>
      <li>What is the length of the document key?</li>
      <li>Which fields need to be indexed? </li>
      <li>Will you be using simple or compound indexes?</li>
      <li>What is the minimum, maximum, or average value size of the index field?</li>
     
      <li>How many indexes do you need? </li>
      <li>How many documents need to be indexed? </li>
      <li>How often do you want compaction to run? </li>
    </ol>
    <p>Answers to the above questions can help you better understand the capacity requirement of
      your cluster and provide a better estimation for sizing. At Couchbase, we looked at
      performance data and customer use cases to provide sizing calculations for each of the areas:
      CPU, Memory, Disk and Disk I/O.</p>
    <p>Here is a disk size example:</p>
   
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_pwg_l2c_3t">
        <title>Disk Sizes</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Input variable</entry>
              <entry>Value</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>docID</entry>
              <entry>20 bytes</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Number of index fields</entry>
              <entry>1</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Secondary index</entry>
              <entry>24 bytes</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Number of documents to be indexed</entry>
              <entry>20M</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    <p>When we calculate disk usage for the above test cases, there are a few factors we need to keep in mind: </p>
    <ol>
      <li>Compaction is disabled. This case illustrates the worst-case scenario for disk usage.</li>
      <li>Couchbase Server uses an append-only storage format. Therefore, actual disk usage will be
        larger than data size.</li>
      <li>Fragmentation will affect the disk usage. The larger the fragmentation, the more disk you will need. </li>
    </ol>
    <p>Based on our experiment, we noticed that the above index consumes 6GB of disk space. </p>
   
  </body>
</topic>
