<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3291">
  <title>Testing Couchbase Server</title><shortdesc>Testing the connection to the Couchbase Server can be performed in a number of different
    ways.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>Connecting to the node using a web client to connect to Couchbase Web Console 
      provides basic confirmation that your node is available. Using the
       <codeph>couchbase-cli</codeph> command to query your Couchbase Server node will confirm that
      the node is available.</p>
    
    <note type="note">Couchbase Web Console uses the same port number as clients use when communicated
      with Couchbase Server. If you can connect to the Couchbase Web Console, administration and
      database clients can connect to the core cluster port and perform operations.
      Couchbase Web Console will also warn if the console loses connectivity to the node. </note>
    <p>To verify that your installation works for clients, you can use either the
       <cmdname>cbworkloadgen</cmdname> command, or <cmdname>telnet</cmdname>. </p>
      <p>The
      <cmdname>cbworkloadgen</cmdname> command uses the Python Client SDK to communicate with the
      cluster, checking both the cluster administration port and data update ports.</p>
    <p>Using <cmdname>telnet</cmdname> only checks the memcached compatibility ports and the memcached
      text-only protocol. </p>    
  </body>
</topic>
