<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_y23_jjv_xs">
  <title>Upgrade Strategies</title><shortdesc>Upgrade a Couchbase Server cluster in a manner that is best suited to your operations.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    
      <p>There are various strategies for upgrading Couchbase Server, each with pros and cons, as
      well as levels of risk and complexity.</p>   
    <section><title>Option #1 - Rolling Online Upgrade</title>
      <p>If you have no sound reason to use another option, use the online upgrade. It provides the
        ability to incur no downtime for the database and applications, as all data operations
        continue normally throughout the process. </p>
      <p>Rolling upgrades involve the addition of completely new upgraded node(s) or the removal,
        upgrade plus adding back of node(s) using the rebalance feature of Couchbase to redistribute
        the data amongst the nodes, but keeps that data accessible the entire duration of the
        upgrade.</p>  
      <p>Couchbase Server is specifically designed to provide fully online 
        upgrades with minimal impact to no impact on the availability and performance of the application. 
        If you find this is not the case, please report a bug.</p>
      <p>There are three options for rolling online upgrades:</p> 
      
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Swap Rebalance</dt>
          <dd>This method incorporates introducing new nodes into a Couchbase Server cluster as you remove the same number of nodes to be upgraded. It uses a feature called Swap Rebalance to move vBuckets efficiently from an existing node running the Data Service to a new node that will run the data service.
          </dd>
          <dd>While this method is the safest and provides the most availability, one downside to
            this option is the overall duration of a cluster upgrade may be longer as compared to
            other options. If the speed of an upgrade is the primary concern for the cluster to be
            upgraded, such as if you have a narrow maintenance window, see <xref
              href="../clustersetup/setup-failover-graceful.dita#topic_ysk_ycm_zs">Graceful
              Failover</xref> or <xref href="upgrade-offline.dita#topic_q11_1my_p4"/>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Regular Rebalance</dt>
          <dd>This method is used when you must use the existing nodes of the cluster to complete the
            upgrade. It involves removing at least one existing node from the cluster, upgrading the
            node(s) and then added back in. Using this upgrade method will reduce the capacity of
            the cluster during the upgrade process. </dd>
          <dd>Like a swap rebalance upgrade, this style will require multiple rebalances to
            complete.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>  
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="graceful">
          <dt>Graceful Failover</dt>
          <dd>This option involves performing a rolling online upgrade using a <xref
              href="../clustersetup/setup-failover-graceful.dita#topic_ysk_ycm_zs">Graceful
              Failover</xref> instead of the full addition and removal of nodes in option #1. This
            option is typically faster and less resource intensive as it does not involve moving of
            vBuckets between nodes. With this process, there is a cluster rebalance but it is only
            to synchronize the vBuckets on the upgraded node when each node returns to the cluster.
            An added benefit over other online upgrades is the ability to save the global secondary
            indexes without rebuilding them. </dd>
          <dd>The primary downside to this option is increased risk as replicas are used for faster failover and not recreated until a rebalance occurs. This option is not available when choosing to upgrade with net-new systems (as in the case of many cloud deployments) since those new nodes would not have the previous nodes’ data in place. Use Option #1 when upgrading with net-new systems.
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      
    </section>
    <section><title>Option #2 - Upgrade Using Intercluster Replication</title>
      <p>For this option, another Couchbase Server cluster is created or already exists and then
        intercluster replication is enabled via the Cross Datacenter Replication (<xref
          href="../xdcr/xdcr-intro.dita#topic1500">XDCR</xref>) built-in feature of Couchbase
        Server. The application is transitioned over by the administrator to use the new cluster as
        part of the upgrade process. While the upgrade process is relatively straightforward to set
        up, it will require more investment in servers/instances and networking, as well as a change
        to the application to see the new upgraded cluster. It is best used when an administrator
        does not want to tinker with the original cluster or would like to have an immediate
        rollback position. This method is recommended when an existing XDCR connection is already in
        place. </p>  
      <p>Some people modify their application, to make this can be a zero downtime upgrade by having
        their application aware of both clusters and can failover between them automatically. If you
        do this, keep in mind that unlike regular operations against the Data Service, XDCR is
        eventually consistent. Most people treat this as an offline upgrade and will roll the
        application over with the new cluster configurations. Which solution is best will depend on
        your SLA requirements. </p> 
      
    </section>
    <section id="offline"><title>Option #3 - Offline Upgrade</title>
      <p>Choose an offline upgrade when the situation calls for an easy and fast upgrade method as well as when the database can incur a controlled outage. The offline upgrade is more likely to succeed in situations where an online upgrade option might fail, but also the rare time a cluster is unstable and has been determined that a Couchbase Server upgrade will fix a specific issue.</p>
      <p>The offline upgrade is also the easiest option for single-node environments (such as in
        development) where additional nodes are not available; the overall dataset is minimal, and a
        brief disruption is tolerable. See also <xref href="upgrade-offline.dita#topic_q11_1my_p4"
        />.</p>
      
      
    </section>
    <section><title>Choosing the Upgrade Strategy</title>
      
      <p>Both the online and offline upgrade processes have trade-offs. The following table
      illustrates some important aspects of the two upgrade strategies.</p>
    <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_shv_yr2_zs">
      <title>Differences between online and offline upgrades</title>
      <tgroup cols="3">
        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Feature</entry>
            <entry>Online upgrade</entry>
            <entry>Offline upgrade</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>Applications remain available</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
           
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Cluster stays in operation</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Cluster must be shut down</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
            <entry>Yes</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Typically required steps</entry>
            <entry>Rebalance, upgrade, rebalance per node</entry>
            <entry>All cluster nodes are upgraded at once.</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
   <note type="important">Mac OSX does not support a direct upgrade. When upgrading on this
      platform, first back up your data and perform a clean uninstall of the old version. Once you
      install the new version, restore the data back to the new cluster.</note> </section>
  </body>
</topic>
