<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_tlg_jqz_bw">
  <title>Data</title>
  <shortdesc>
    Couchbase Server saves data as <i>items</i>, each of which has a <i>key</i> and a <i>value</i>.
  </shortdesc>
  
  <body>
    
    <section>
      
      <title>
        Items, Keys, and Values
      </title>
      
      <p>
        Items consist of a key and a value. A key is a unique identifier within the bucket. Value 
        can be a binary or a JSON document. Binary and JSON values can both reside within an individual
        bucket. 
      </p>
      
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Keys
      </title>
          
          <p>
            Each value (binary or JSON) is identified by a unique key. The key is typically a 
            surrogate key generated using a counter or a UUID generator. Keys are immutable. Thus, if you 
            use composite or compound keys, ensure that you use attributes that don’t change over time. 
          </p>

    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Values
      </title>

        <p>
          <b>Binary values</b>: Binary values can be used for high performance access to compact 
          data through keys. Encrypted secrets, IoT instrument measurements, proplarity session 
          states, or other not-human-readable data are typical cases for binary data. However, using binary 
          values limits the functionality your application can take advantage of, ruling out indexing and 
          querying in Couchbase Server as binary values have a proprietary representation.
        </p>

        <p>
          <b>JSON values</b>: JSON provides rich representation for entities. Couchbase Server
          can parse, index and query JSON values. JSON provide a name and a value for each
          attribute. You can find the JSON definition at <xref
          href="https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7159" format="html" scope="external">RFC
          7159</xref> or at <xref
          href="http://www.ecma-international.org/publications/files/ECMA-ST/ECMA-404.pdf"
          format="pdf" scope="external">ECMA 404</xref>. 
        </p> 
        
        <p>
          The JSON document attributes
          can represent both basic types such as number, string, Boolean, and complex
          types including embedded documents and arrays. In the examples below,
          <varname>a1</varname> and <varname>a2</varname> represent attributes that
          have a numeric and string value respectively, <varname>a3</varname> represents
          an embedded document, and <varname>a4</varname> represents an array of
          embedded documents.
        </p>
                    <codeblock>{  
  "a1":number,
  "a2":"string",
  "a3":{
    "b1":[ number, number, number ]
  },
  "a4":[
    { "c1":"string", "c2":number },
    { "c1":"string", "c2":number }
  ]
}</codeblock>

        <p>
          The
          powerful range of representations enabled by JSON in Couchbase Server
          documents allows developers the utmost flexibility in modeling their entities
          and relationships.
        </p>
    </section>
    
  </body>
</topic>
