<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_a2d_45p_rv">
  <title>Couchbase ODBC and JDBC Drivers</title>
  <body>
    <p>Simba Technologies</p>
    <p>The ODBC and JDBC drivers enable any application based on the ODBC/JDBC standards, for example Microsoft Excel, QlikView, SAP Lumira, or Tableau, to connect to a Couchbase Server or cluster. These
      drivers enable fast and seamless access to Couchbase data. Using these drivers, the applications can
      leverage on the powerful N1QL functionality to efficiently store and process JSON documents at scale.</p>
    <p>Couchbase ODBC and JDBC drivers are developed and distributed by Simba Technologies. These drivers are compliant with ODBC 3.8 and JDBC 4.0/4.1 standards, and compatible with ANSI SQL-92. With the support for N1QL, these drivers empower both ODBC/JDBC and N1QL applications to connect to Couchbase server. 
      For more information on downloading the drivers and complete documentation, refer to our partner page <xref href="http://www.simba.com/drivers/couchbase-odbc-jdbc/" format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
    <p>CData Software</p>
    <p>CData Software has developed standards-based drivers to connect your Couchbase data to the BI, reporting, and ETL tools that you are already using. With drivers that adhere to time- and industry-proven standards, like JDBC, ODBC, and ADO.NET, users are freed to quickly connect with their Couchbase data in their favorite tools, saving them the time and hassle of managing the data integration.</p>
    <p>The CData Drivers are built to modern standards (JDBC 4, ODBC 3.8, Excel 2007-2016, .NET 4.7, OData 4) and can process SQL-92 queries and translate them into N1QL, simultaneously granting you access to your data in tools you already use and leveraging the utility of Couchbase Server data storage and querying technology. For more information and to download a free trial, refer to the CData Couchbase landing page <xref href="http://www.cdata.com/drivers/couchbase/" format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
