<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_qxc_5hh_x5">
  <title><cmdname>create</cmdname></title><shortdesc>Create a backup repository for your  data before you start a backup.</shortdesc>
  <body>
   
    
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <codeblock>./backup create --dir [directory-name] --name [repository-name] [options]   </codeblock>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>The <cmdname>create</cmdname> command requires a path to the location where your backup
        repository will be created as well as a name for the repository. Optional parameters for
        this command can be used to customize the backup configuration. By default, the created
        backup configuration will back up all buckets and all data, indexes, and bucket level
        configuration from your cluster.</p>
      
    </section>
    
    
    <section><title>Options</title>
     
      <p>The following are the command options:
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_c4r_qwv_x5">
          <title>create options</title>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.13*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Option</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--dir /[directory name]</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Name of the backup directory.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--name=REPOSITORY-NAME</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Create the named backup repository. </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--include-buckets=BUCKET-NAME</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Back up data only from the named bucket.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--disable-bucket-config</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Back up </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--disable views</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Back up all data, GSI indexes, and full text indexes except views. By defult,
                  all data is backed up (GSI indexes, full text indexes) except from the one that is
                  disabled.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </p>
      
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Examples</title>
      
      <p>To create a backup repository named <codeph>travel</codeph> in the
          <filepath>/tmp/backups</filepath> folder with the default configuration:
        <codeblock>./backup create --dir /tmp/backups --name=travel</codeblock></p>
    
      <p>To create a backup repository named travel in the <filepath>/tmp/backups</filepath> folder
        with a configuration that backs up all data, indexes, and bucket configuration only from the
          <codeph>travel-samples</codeph>
        bucket: <codeblock>./backup create --dir /tmp/backups --name=travel --include-buckets=travel-sample</codeblock></p>
      
 
      <p>To create a backup repository named <codeph>travel</codeph> in the
          <filepath>/tmp/backups</filepath> folder with a configuration that backs up all indexes
        and bucket configuration only from  the <codeph>travel-samples</codeph> bucket: 
        <codeblock>./backup create --dir /tmp/backups --name=travel --include-buckets=travel-sample --disable-data</codeblock></p>
  
      <p>To create a backup repository named <codeph>travel</codeph> in the
          <filepath>/tmp/backups</filepath> folder with a configuration that backs up all data, GSI
        indexes, and full text indexes from all buckets: 
        <codeblock>./backup create --dir /tmp/backups --name=travel --disable-bucket-config --disable-views</codeblock></p>
      
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
