<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_zqt_fnf_z5">
  <title>Using the tool </title><shortdesc>Commands used by the Backup and Restore tool are <cmdname>create</cmdname>,
      <cmdname>cluster</cmdname>, <cmdname>restore</cmdname>, <cmdname>merge</cmdname>,
      <cmdname>compact</cmdname>, and <cmdname>remove</cmdname>.</shortdesc>
  <body> 
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Create an archive repository with the command <cmdname>create</cmdname>:</dt>
          <dd>If the archive repository doesn't exist, the tool will attempt to create it:
          <codeblock>./backup create --dir [directory-name] --name [repository-name] --host [hostname] \
        --username [admin] --password [password]</codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry></dl>
      
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Back up data with the command <cmdname>cluster</cmdname>:</dt>    
          <dd>
          <p>
            <codeblock>$> ./backup cluster --dir [directory-name]  --name [repository-name] --host [hostname] \
        --username [admin] --password [password] </codeblock>
          </p>
        </dd></dlentry></dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Merge backups wit the command <cmdname>merge</cmdname></dt>
          <dd>Merging incremental backups allows you to free up disk space on the machine where your
          backup archive server is located by de-duplicating similar data between backups. It also
          enables you to run continuous incremental backups instead of full backups and to reduce
          significantly the amount of time you spend backing up your cluster. To merge backups, you
          just need to specify the starting and ending backups that you would like to merge. <p>The
              <cmdname>merge</cmdname> command copies the oldest backup to be merged to a separate
              <codeph>.merge</codeph> directory. Data from each subsequent incremental backup
            directory, which is a part of the merge, is then copied to this directory. Once all of
            the data has been merged in the <codeph>.merge</codeph> directory, the old backups are
            deleted from the backup archive and the <codeph>.merge</codeph> directory is renamed to
            the backup specified in the <codeph>--end</codeph> argument. </p><p>Merging of backups
            is fault-tolerant, and data loss is not possible even if the backup tool crashes: there
            is a <codeph>.merge_status </codeph>file that records the last completed step of the
            process and which incremental backups are supposed to be merged. If a merge fails to
            complete, the backup tool will detect an incomplete merge and revert it.</p><p>To merge
            several backups together:
            <codeblock>./backup merge --dir [directory-name] --name [repository-name] --start 2016-01-22T15:42:41.383468246-08:00 \
                  --end 2016-01-22T15:42:41.383468246-08:00</codeblock></p>The
            <cmdname>merge</cmdname> command does not delete any files from the backup archive until
          it is finished merging all of the data together. Make sure there is a free disk space at
          least equal to the size of all incremental backups that are being merged.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>     
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Restore data with the command <cmdname>restore</cmdname></dt>
          <dd>Only full Couchbase administrators can perform restores using their credentials.
            <p>First decide which backups you want to restore. Use the <codeph>--start</codeph> and
              <codeph>--end</codeph> flags to specify the backups. If the <codeph>--start</codeph>
            flag is not specified, it defaults to the first backup taken. If the --end flag is not
            specified, it defaults to the last flag taken. If you want to start or end from a
            different backup, specify the name of the backup for one or both of these flags.
            </p><p>If you want to start or end from a different backup, specify the name of the
            backup for one or both of these flags. </p>To restore all backups in the backup
          repository <codeph>travel</codeph>: <p>
            <codeblock>$> ./backup restore --dir [directory-name] --name travel --host [hostname] \
     --username [admin] --password [password]</codeblock>
          </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Compact data with the command <cmdname>compact</cmdname></dt>
          <dd>Compact the data of an incremental backup and after the backup has completed:
          <codeblock>./backup compact --dir [directory-name] --name [repository-name] --incr-backup 2016-01-22T15:42:41.383468246-08:00</codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>    
      
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Remove a backup from the backup archive with the command <cmdname>remove</cmdname></dt>
          <dd>Remove a backup from the backup archive. Make sure the data is no longer needed!
          <codeblock>./backup remove --dir [directory-name] --name [repository-name]</codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl> 
      
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>List the contents of a backup, Backup Repository or entire Backup Archive with the
          command <cmdname>list</cmdname></dt>
        <dd>Llist the backup from the backup archive for a specific backup respository.
          <codeblock>./backup list --dir [directory-name] --name [repository-name]</codeblock></dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl> 
    
  </body>
</topic>
