<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ftq_b3h_x5">
  <title><cmdname>merge</cmdname></title><shortdesc>Merges one or more incremental backups together. </shortdesc>
  <body>
 
    
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <codeblock>./backup merge --dir [directory-name] --name [repository-name] --start [backup-timestamp] --end [backup-timestamp]</codeblock>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>Merging incremental backups allows you to free up disk space on the machine that your 
        backup archive is located by de-duplicating similar data between backups. It also also 
        allows you to avoid having to run full backups in favor of continuous incremental backups. 
        This can significantly reduce the amount of time you spend backing up your cluster. To merge backups 
        you just need to specify the starting and ending backups that you would like to merge. 
        The current backup names can be found by running the list command on your backup archive. </p>
      <p>The merge command works by first copying the oldest backup to be merged to a special .merge directory. 
        Data from each subsequent incremental backup directory which is part of 
        the merge is then copied into this directory. Once all of the data has been
        merged into the .merge directory the old backups are deleted from the backup archive and 
        the .merge directory is renamed to the backup specified in the --end argument. 
        Merging backups is also fault tolerant so it is not possible for there to be data loss even if the backup tool crashes. 
        To ensure that this is the case there is a .merge_status file which records the last completed step of the merge 
        and which incremental backups are supposed to be merged. If a merge fails to complete then the backup tool will 
        detect that there is an incomplete merge and will revert the merge.
      </p>
      <p>Since the merge command does not delete any files from the backup archive until it is finished merging all of the 
        data together you need to make sure that there is free disk space at least equal to 
        the size of all incremental backups that are being merged.</p>
    </section>
    
    
    <section><title>Options</title>
      
      <p>The following are the command options:
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_c4r_qwv_x5">
          <title>merge options</title>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.7*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Option</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--dir /[directory name]</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Name of the backup directory.</entry>
              </row> <row>
                <entry><codeph>--name REPOSITORY-NAME</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Name of the backup repository. </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--start [backup timestamp]</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Timestamp of the first backup from which to merge.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--end [backup timestamp]</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Timestamp of the last backup through which to merge. </entry>
              </row>
              
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </p>
      
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Examples</title>
      
      <p>Run the <cmdname>merge</cmdname> command to merge backups together, starting and ending
        with the specified backup
        timestamps:<codeblock>./backup merge --dir /tmp/backups --name travel --start 2016-01-22T15:42:41.383468246-08:00 \
--end 2016-01-22T15:42:41.383468246-08:00</codeblock></p>
      
  
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
