<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_nh4_zhh_x5">
  <title><cmdname>restore</cmdname></title><shortdesc>Restore data and provide options to include or exclude buckets and data from the restore
    process.</shortdesc>
  <body>
  
    
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <codeblock>./backup restore --dir [directory-name] --name [repository-name] --host [hostname]\
--username [admin] --password [password] [options] </codeblock>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>Backups are taken in to protect against data loss or corruption. When these situations
        happen, you want to be able to restore backed up data back to your cluster. Use the
          <cmdname>restore</cmdname> command, which restores data and provides options to include or
        exclude buckets and data from the restore process.</p>
      <p>The restore command allows you also to specify which parts of a backup you want to restore
        by providing restore options similar to the ones in the create command. Using these options
        allows you to specify which buckets should be restored and whether or not to restore the
        bucket configuration, views, indexes, full-text indexes or data during the restore
        process.</p>
    </section>
    
    
    <section><title>Options</title>
      
      <p>The following are the command options:
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_c4r_qwv_x5">
          <title>restore options</title>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.7*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Option</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--dir /[directory name]</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Path of the backup archive. REQUIRED</entry>
              </row> <row>
                <entry><codeph>--name REPOSITORY-NAME</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Name of the backup respositor to be restored. REQUIRED</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--host HOSTNAME</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Name of the host where the backup is to be restored. REQUIRED</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--username USERNAME</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Login of the administrator who is restoring the backup. REQUIRED</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--password PASSWORD</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Password of the administrator who is restoring the backup. REQUIRED</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--start [backup number]</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Number of the first backup from which to restore.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--end [backup number]</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Number of the last backup through which to restore. </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--include-buckets [BUCKET-NAMES]</codeph></entry>
                <entry>A comma separated list of buckets to back up. Only buckets in this list are
                  backed up.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--exclude-buckets [BUCKET-NAMES]</codeph></entry>
                <entry>A comma separated list of buckets to exclude from backups. All buckets except
                  for the ones specified will be backed up.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--disable-bucket-config</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Disables backing up the bucket config information</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--disable-views</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Disables backing up view definitions</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--disable-gsi-indexes</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Disables backing up GSI index definitions</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--disable-ft-indexes</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Disables backing up Full Text index definitions</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--disable-data</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Disables backing up cluster data</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--force-updates</codeph></entry>
                <entry>By default conflict resolution is used so that backup data does not overwrite
                  more recent data. Specify this option to force backup data to overwrite newer
                  data.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--threads</codeph></entry>
                <entry>The amount of parallelism used during backup. (Default is 1).</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--no-progress-bar</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Disables printing of the progress bar.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </p>
      
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Examples</title>
      
      <p>Restores all backups in the backup repository <codeph>travel</codeph>:
        <codeblock>./backup restore --dir /data/couchbase/backups --name travel --host couchbase://localhost \
--username Administrator --password password</codeblock></p>
      
      <p>In the examples below, data was backed up in the archive
          <filepath>/data/couchbase/backups</filepath> and backup repository
        <codeph>travel</codeph>. This backup repository contains four backups with stamps
          <codeph>2016-01-19T15:41:25.448936431-08:00</codeph>,
          <codeph>2016-01-20T15:32:15.124936651-08:00</codeph>,
          <codeph>2016-01-21T15:39:31.828976983-08:00</codeph>, and
          <codeph>2016-01-22T15:42:41.383468246-08:00</codeph>.</p>
      <p>Restores the two most recent backups in the backup repository <codeph>travel</codeph>:
        <codeblock>./backup restore --dir /data/couchbase/backups --name travel --host couchbase://localhost \
--username Administrator --password password --start 2016-01-21T15:39:31.828976983-08:00</codeblock></p>
      
      <p>Does not restore the first and last backups in the backup repository
          <codeph>travel</codeph>:
        <codeblock>./backup restore --dir /data/couchbase/backups --name travel --host couchbase://localhost \
--username Administrator --password password --start 2016-01-20T15:32:15.124936651-08:00 \
--end 2016-01-21T15:39:31.828976983-08:00</codeblock></p>
      <p>Only restores the last backup in the backup repository <codeph>travel</codeph>:
        <codeblock>./backup restore --dir /data/couchbase/backups --name travel --host couchbase://localhost \
--username Administrator --password password --start 2016-01-22T15:42:41.383468246-08:00 \
--end 2016-01-22T15:42:41.383468246-08:00</codeblock></p>
      <p>Restores all backups in the backup repository <codeph>travel</codeph>, but restores only
        the <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> bucket and uses 4 threads for parallelism:
        <codeblock>./backup restore --dir /data/couchbase/backups --name travel --host couchbase://localhost \
--username Administrator --password password --include-buckets travel-sample --threads 4</codeblock></p>
      <p>Restores all backups in the sample backup repository <codeph>travel</codeph>, but skips
        restoring data:
        <codeblock>./backup restore --dir /data/couchbase/backups --name travel --host couchbase://localhost \
--username Administrator --password password --disable-data</codeblock></p>
      <p>Restores all backups in the sample backup repository <codeph>travel</codeph>, but restores
        only the views in the <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> bucket:
        <codeblock>./backup restore --dir /data/couchbase/backups --name travel --host couchbase://localhost \
--username Administrator --password password --include-buckets travel-sample \
--disable-bucket-config --disable-gsi-indexes --disable--ft-indexes --disable-data       </codeblock></p>
      
      
      
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
