<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ksl_wwk_1v">
  <title>Text Indexing</title>
  <body>
    <p>In order to perform full text queries, you must first create a full text index. Unlike N1QL or other SQL systems, you can’t run full text searches directly on data without a full text index: full text search has nothing like a table scan that can inspect documents outside the index.</p>
    <p>The process of creating an index is called <term>index mapping</term>, in which you specify
      how you want Couchbase Server to map the different fields in your JSON documents to elements
      in the full text index. You typically want a different index mapping for each type of document
      you want to search. For example, if you’re using the Couchbase
        <parmname>beer-sample</parmname> bucket, you might choose to map documents of type
        <parmname>beer</parmname> one way and documents of type <parmname>brewery</parmname>
      another.</p>
    <p>An index can contain information from one bucket only. Your user must have appropriate access
      permissions for the bucket they want to search. You can enable searches across buckets by
      using an <xref href="fts-index-alias.dita#topic_c2m_wgz_1v">index alias</xref>.</p>
    <p>To create an index, go to the Couchbase Server web console > <uicontrol>Indexes</uicontrol>
      tab > <uicontrol>Full Text</uicontrol>.</p>
    <p>Your URL might look something like this, if you replace <parmname>localhost</parmname> with
      the name of your server:
      <codeblock>http://localhost:8091/ui/index.html#/fts_list</codeblock></p>
    <p>From here, you can create, edit, clone, and delete index definitions. If you see a message
      saying “<systemoutput>Full Text not enabled on this node,</systemoutput>” access the web
      console on another node where the full text service is enabled.</p>
    <p>To create an index in the web console, using your web browser: <ul>
        <li>Navigate to the <uicontrol>Indexes</uicontrol> tab > <uicontrol>Full
          Text</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li>Click on the <uicontrol>New Index</uicontrol> button.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>To edit an index definition in the web console, using your web browser: <ul>
        <li>Navigate to the <uicontrol>Indexes</uicontrol> tab > <uicontrol>Full
          Text</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li>This page displays a list of full text indexes that you had previously defined, , if
          any.</li>
      </ul> Each listed index, if any, has buttons for the following operations: <ul>
        <li>The index <uicontrol>edit</uicontrol> button allows you to update an index definition.
          Updating the index definition causes it to be rebuilt.</li>
        <li>the index <uicontrol>clone</uicontrol> button allows you to copy an index
          definition.</li>
        <li>the index <uicontrol>delete</uicontrol> button allows you to delete an index definition.
            <note>When you click on the index <uicontrol>delete</uicontrol> button, you will have a
            chance to first confirm the deletion operation. Deleting an index, importantly, is a
            permanent operation.</note></li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
