<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_nvp_msk_1v">
  <title>Quick Start</title>
  <body>
    <p>Full text search is a service that is installed with the Developer Preview, so no special
      installation is necessary. Just make sure you enable the service when you provision your
      Couchbase Server node. <note type="important">In the Developer Preview (DP) release, FTS
        should only be run on one single node per cluster. If you are evaluating Couchbase Server DP
        in a multi-node environment, be sure to disable the Full Text service on all nodes but one,
        or you may experience unexpected behaviors.</note></p>
  <section><title>Creating Your First Full Text Index</title>
    <p>Log in to the Couchbase Web Console, for example,
        <filepath>http://localhost:8091/</filepath>. Click <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Indexes</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Full Text</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>, then click on the <uicontrol>New Full Text Index</uicontrol> button. </p> <p>A form where you can define your new index configuration is displayed.</p> <p><uicontrol>Index Name</uicontrol></p> 
    <p>Each index needs a unique name. Type one in, such as "<userinput>test-index</userinput>".
        Only alphanumeric characters, hyphens, and underscores are allowed for index names. Also,
        the first character must be an alphabetic character. </p> 
    <p>
        <uicontrol>Bucket Name</uicontrol></p> 
    <p>Choose a bucket from the drop-down list. </p> 
    <p>There are more options, but you can ignore those for now and rely on the default  values.</p> 
    <p><b>Go!</b> </p> 
    <p>Finally, click the <uicontrol>Create Index</uicontrol> button.</p> <p>You should now see a summary page of your new full text index. The document count shows how many
        documents have been indexed so far. You can click on the <uicontrol>Refresh</uicontrol>
        button next to the Document Count field in order to see the indexing progress.</p>
  </section> 
  <section><title>Querying Your Full Text Index</title>
    <p>Next, click on the <uicontrol>Full Text</uicontrol> tab again.</p>
    <p>From the drop-down list, select your newly created index.</p>
    <p>In the query field, type in a query term and press the <uicontrol>Search</uicontrol>
        button.</p>
    <p>Congratulations, you’ve just executed your first full text query!</p>
  </section>
  <section><title>Using the REST API</title>
    <p>You can also use the REST API to access your index.</p>
    <p>For example, if your index is named <userinput>myFirstIndex</userinput>, here's how you can
        use curl to check how many documents are indexed:
        <codeblock>curl -u Administrator:password http://localhost:9110/api/index/myFirstIndex/count</codeblock>
        Here's an example of using curl to query the index <userinput>myFirstIndex</userinput>:
        <codeblock>curl -XPOST -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{"size":10,"query":{"query":"your search string"}}' \
http://localhost:9110/api/index/myFirstIndex/query</codeblock>
        That's it. You should be ready to explore, or read on to learn more about creating and
        querying indexes.</p></section></body>
</topic>
