<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_kp4_qth_t5">
  <title>Full Text Search</title>
  <shortdesc>Couchbase Server Full Text Search (FTS) enables you to create, manage, and query full text indexes on JSON documents stored in a Couchbase bucket.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>Full Text Search provides powerful capabilities for querying natural language. There are
      three major benefits that make full text search much easier to use than alternative methods of
      querying, such as a wildcard match in N1QL using LIKE statements: <ul>
        <li>FTS provides a language-aware manner of searching, so users can type
            "<codeph>beauties</codeph>" and find results for "<codeph>beauty</codeph>" - which is
          not easy to do with regular expressions.</li>
        <li>FTS provides scoring (relevance ranking) for results. Text search often returns massive
          numbers of matching documents, which are ordered by score so that users are presented with
          only a small number of results that are most likely to be the ones they are looking for.
          With regular expressions, there’s no practical way to simulate relevance. </li>
        <li>FTS provides fast indexes that support a wide range of possible text searches. Regular
          expressions can be used to build one-off indexes but can’t be used to build indexes that
          support a full range of possible text searches.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>Couchbase Server Full Text Search is powered by <xref href="http://www.blevesearch.com/"
      format="html" scope="external">bleve</xref>, a full text
      search and indexing library written in Go. FTS indexes your documents with Bleve and lets you use Bleve’s many powerful query types: <ul>
        <li>Term, Phrase, Match, Match Phrase, Prefix</li>
        <li>Conjunction, Disjunction, Boolean</li>
        <li>Numeric and Date Ranges</li>
        <li>Query String (see <xref
            href="fts-query-types.dita#topic_jfq_fn4_1v/query-string-query-syntax"
          >Syntax</xref>)</li>
      </ul> FTS includes Bleve’s general-purpose analyzers as well as pre-built text analyzers for the following languages: Danish, Dutch, English, Finnish, French, German, Hungarian, Italian, Norwegian, Persian, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Sorani, Spanish, Swedish, Thai, and Turkish. </p>
    <p>FTS scores documents for relevance using Bleve’s industry standard <xref
        href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tf%E2%80%93idf" format="html" scope="external"
        >tf-idf</xref> scoring with query time boosting.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
