<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ihy_ddy_w5">
  <title>Memory-Optimized Global Indexes</title><shortdesc>Memory-optimized global indexes enable in-memory index processing and index scans with
    the lowest latency. These indexes reside in memory and provide a fresh index that is up to date
    under aggressive mutation rates without impacting the incoming database workload. </shortdesc>
  <body>
    <section><title>Enabling Memory-Optimized Global Indexes on the Cluster</title>
      <p>Storage option for global indexes is set with the configuration of the first node that runs
        index service. At the time of setup, users can either use the existing global index storage
        or can utilize the new memory-optimized global index storage for faster index processing. </p>
      <p>The storage option for global indexes cannot be changed after setting up the first node
        that runs the index service. To change the storage setting, remove all nodes running index
        service first using remove node operation. If you are running a single node, uninstall and
        reinstall Couchbase Server with the new option. </p>
<!--      <p>Enable the memory optimized global indexes
        from the <uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol> tab on the Couchbase Web console. Under the Index
        Settings section, set <uicontrol>Use Memory-Optimized Indexes</uicontrol> to
        <userinput>ON</userinput>. The default value is OFF. <note>This value can only be set when
          adding the first index service node to your cluster.</note> Memory optimized indexes can
        be disabled only after all the index service nodes in the cluster are removed.</p>-->
      <p><b>Creating Memory-Optimized Global Indexes</b></p>
      <p>Once the memory-optimized storage option is enabled for global indexes, you can use the
        CREATE INDEX statement without any changes to create global indexes in the system. For
        information on creating global indexes using the CREATE INDEX statement in N1QL, see the
        N1QL Reference documentation for <xref
          href="http://developer.couchbase.com/documentation/server/4.1/n1ql/n1ql-language-reference/createindex.html"
          format="html" scope="external">CREATE INDEX</xref> statement. For information on the
        extended CREATE INDEX statement option that allows fine-grained indexing of embedded arrays,
        see <xref href="indexing-arrays.dita#topic_hv4_sbr_w5"/>.</p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Handling Out-of-Memory Conditions</title>
      <p>Memory-optimized global indexes reside in memory. When a node running the index service
        runs out of configured index RAM quota on the node, indexes on the node can no longer
        process additional changes to the indexes on the node that has run out of memory. The index
        service logs an error in the Couchbase Server log indicating the condition. You can also
        observe how much memory is available on each node running the index service using the index
        statistic "<cmdname>Max Index RAM Used %</cmdname>" under "Server Resources" stat section of
        bucket statistics. </p>
<p>Memory-optimized indexes on a node that has run out of memory continue to stay in the ONLINE
        state. However, the round-robin logic routes traffic away from this index node. If an index
        is in OFFLINE, DEFERRED, or BUILDING state, the index is not transitioned to the ONLINE
        state.</p>
      <p>When the node is restarted, indexes stay in the BUILDING state until the last persisted snapshot is read from disk into memory. The additional catchup is done in ONLINE state. Queries with <codeph>stale=false</codeph> or RYOW semantics fail if the timestamp specified exceeds the last timestamp processed by the specific index on the node. However, queries with <codeph>stale=ok</codeph> continue to execute normally. </p>
<p>To recover from an out of memory situation, use one or more of the following fixes:<ul>
          <li>Increase the index RAM quota sufficiently enough to give indexes the additional memory
            to process requests.</li>
          <li>Drop other indexes on the node to free up memory. On nodes with multiple indexes, drop
            the unimportant indexes to free memory.</li>
          <li>Drop buckets with indexes. Dropping a bucket automatically drops all the dependent
            indexes and has the same effect as dropping all indexes on a bucket.</li>
          <li>Flush buckets with indexes. Flushing a bucket deletes all data in a bucket. Even if
            there are pending updates that are not processed, flushing a bucket causes all indexes
            to drop their data. </li>
        </ul><note type="important">Deleting data selectively from buckets does not help, as
          mutations are processed in sequence and indexes can not process mutations in an
          out-of-memory condition.</note></p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Limitations</title>
      <p><ul>
        <li>Memory-optimized indexes cannot co-exist with normal GSI indexes. This means, for the
            Developer Preview release, enabling memory-optimized indexes (cluster-wide setting)
            automatically disables GSI indexes in the cluster. However, you can use MapReduce views
            to create persisted indexes.</li>
        <li>Memory-optimized global indexes are supported only for Couchbase buckets.</li>
        <li>No syntax changes to the N1QL statements, including BUILD INDEX, CREATE INDEX, DROP INDEX.</li>
      </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Node Failure and Failover</title>
      <p>Nodes with only index service won’t automatically failover, which is the same behavior as in version 4.0/4.1. However, when a node with <codeph>Use memory-optimized index=ON</codeph> restarts, it rebuilds the index starting from the last snapshot. The indexes are marked “ONLINE” while the mutations are processed to catch up.</p>
    </section>
    
  </body>
</topic>
