<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_u5c_lks_w5">
  <title>Installation</title><shortdesc>Couchbase Server Developer Preview 4.5 is installed for development purposes only on
    Linux, Mas OSX, and Windows. </shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>To install Couchbase Server for this Developer Preview follow the instructions in the <xref
        href="http://developer.couchbase.com/documentation/server/4.1/install/installation-guide-intro.html"
        format="html" scope="external">Installation guide</xref> for Couchbase Server 4.1, which
      also describes the general <xref
        href="http://developer.couchbase.com/documentation/server/4.1/install/sizing-general.html"
        format="html" scope="external">Sizing Guidelines</xref>.</p>
    <p>These new sizing guidelines are provided to ensure that you have enough hardware resources to
      support all new functionalities. </p>


    
    <section><title>Sizing guidelines</title>
      <p>There are three hardware resources you need to consider when sizing a Couchbase Server
        node:</p>
      <p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_qzz_b1q_y5">
          <title>Hardware resources for Couchbase Server Developer Preview 4.5</title>
          <tgroup cols="3">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="3*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Resource</entry>
                <entry>Minimum</entry>
                <entry>Recommended</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>CPU </entry>
                <entry>4</entry>
                <entry>8 and above. Both the number and performance of CPUs are important.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>RAM</entry>
                <entry>4GB</entry>
                <entry>16GB and above. More RAM means that more data can be served from memory and
                  allow for better performance. </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Disk</entry>
                <entry>8GB</entry>
                <entry>16GBand above</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </p>

     <dl>
       <dlentry>
         <dt>RAM</dt>
         <dd>This resource represents the main memory allocated to Couchbase Server and should be
            determined by the following factors: <ul>
              <li>How much free RAM is available beyond OS and other applications.</li>
              <li>How much data do you want to store in main memory.</li>
              <li>How much latency you expect from KV/indexing/query performance. </li>
            </ul><p>The new components that require RAM are:</p><ul>
              <li><xref href="in-memory-indexes.dita#topic_ihy_ddy_w5">Memory optimized global
                  indexes</xref>, which enable in-memory index processing and index scans with the
                lowest latency. </li>
              <li>Full Text Search (FTS), where the Minimum RAM allocation is  512MB, and
                recommended is 2048MB+ RAM. </li>
            </ul></dd>
      <dd><p>
              <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_j34_3cq_y5">
                <title>Minimum RAM quota for Couchbase Server components</title>
                <tgroup cols="2">
                  <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
                  <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
                  <thead>
                    <row>
                      <entry>Component</entry>
                      <entry>Minimum RAM</entry>
                    </row>
                  </thead>
                  <tbody>
                    <row>
                      <entry>Data Service</entry>
                      <entry>1GB</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                      <entry>Indexing Service powered by ForestDB</entry>
                      <entry>256MB</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                      <entry>Indexing Service powered by Memory-Optimized Index</entry>
                      <entry>256MB minimum, 1GB recommended.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                      <entry>Full text search</entry>
                      <entry>512MB</entry>
                    </row>
                  </tbody>
                </tgroup>
              </table>
            </p>
          
        </dd> 
        </dlentry> </dl>
      
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Disk</dt>
          <dd>Requirements for your disk subsystem are: <ul>
              <li><term>Disk size</term>, which refers to the amount of the disk storage space
                needed to hold your entire data set.</li>
              <li><term>Disk I/O</term>, which is a combination of your sustained read/write rate,
                the need for compacting the database files, and anything else that requires disk
                access.  </li>
            </ul><p>To better support your Couchbase Server, keep in mind the following: <ul>
                <li>Disk space continues to grow if fragmentation ratio keeps climbing. To mitigate
                  that, add enough buffer in your disk space to store all the data. Also, keep an
                  eye on the fragmentation ratio in the UI and trigger compaction process when
                  needed. </li>
                <li>SSD is desired but not required. SSD will bring much better performance than HDD
                  regarding disk throughput and latency.</li>
              </ul></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
       
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
