<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_i1h_jxy_w5">
  <title>Doc Checklist and open questions for DP</title>
  <body> 
    <p><note>This page will be removed from the doc set before DP</note>
This page tracks the open questions that writers/PM need to follow-up and get answers to before the DP. If something will not be addressed right away, open a ticket for Watson Beta/GA and then remove from this list.<ul>
      <li>FTS on Windows - What will the user experience be? Do you see the FTS option during install? And indexes on Web console?</li>
      <li>Docker link from Anil </li>
      <li>Can a person use an old backup and restore on DP environment? ANS: The old backup tool will also be shipped in Watson. Can use either the old or the new tool for backup and restore, but cannot use one version of the tool to backup and the other version to restore.</li>
      <li>Revise verbiage around upgrade and fresh install.</li>
      <li>How does FTS enforce single node setup? What if someone selects multiple FTS nodes? Is there a way to change the node type? Error messages? Troubleshooting tips? What happens when someone chooses to rebalance? Need details on how FTS will behave in DP?</li>
      <li>Sizing guidelines: Start with min reqs for single node (for DP), then extend to cluster during Beta/GA</li>
      <li>Query workbench with SASL - limitation? Need MB-XXXXX </li>
      <li></li>
    </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
