<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ujm_k3s_w5">
  <title>Querying and indexing</title>
  <body>
    <p>Couchbase 4.5 is loaded with major enhancements to querying and indexing that boost query
      performance. <ul id="ul_wf3_5wf_z5">
        <li>The new <term>memory-optimized</term> storage option in 4.5 for global indexes
          come in addition to the regular storage option that has been previously available in
          Couchbase Server 4.0 and 4.1. The memory-optimized storage option provides a much faster
          indexing by performing index maintenance completely in memory. Memory-optimized indexes
          can process mutations (INSERT/UPDATE/DELETE operations) at a much faster pace and provide
          much lower latency queries.</li>
        <li>Fine-grain array indexes enable the creation of indexes over array elements or
          attributes nested deep in arrays. Earlier versions supported only coarse-grain array
          indexes where whole array attribute had to be indexed and queried. Fine-grain indexing
          achieves more efficient storage of indexed data and subsequently improves flexibility and
          performance of queries involving selective deep-array elements or attributes.</li>
        <li>Full Text search: Couchbase Full Text Search (FTS) comes fully integrated with Couchbase
          Server 4.5. It enables you to create, manage, and query full-text indexes on JSON
          documents stored in Couchbase Server buckets. This feature empowers developers to easily
          add full-text search and natural language processing capabilities to their applications.
          It also simplifies operational complexities involved in installation and administration of
          external FTS products. </li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
