<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_prr_nyh_t5">
  <title>Query workbench</title>
  <body>
    <p>The query workbench provides a rich graphical user interface to perform query development.
      Using the query workbench, you can conveniently browse data, create, edit, and save queries,
      run N1QL statements and scripts, manipulate and export data, and view and save results - all
      in a single window. </p>
    <p>Some salient features of the query workbench include: <ul>
      <li>Single, visual interface to perform query development and testing.</li>
      <li>Enables easy viewing and editing of complex queries by providing features such as multi-line formatting, copy-and-paste, and easy cursor movement. </li>
      <li>Provides ability to view the structure of documents in a bucket by using the N1QL <cmdname>describe</cmdname> command. You no longer have to select the documents at random and guess the structure of the document.</li>
      <li>Displays query results in multiple formats: JSON, table,and tree. You can also save the query results to a file on disk.</li>
    </ul></p>
    <p>The query workbench is now integrated with the Couchbase Web console and is available on the
        <uicontrol>Query</uicontrol> tab. <note>The Web console displays the
          <uicontrol>Query</uicontrol> tab only if the Query service is running on the
      node.</note></p>
    <p><b>Supported platforms</b></p>
    <p>The query workbench is supported on Windows, Linux, and Mac OS X platforms. <note type="important">This is a developer preview version of Couchbase Server 4.5 and is intended for development purposes only.
      We consider developer preview releases to have some rough edges and bugs, and may change significantly before the final GA release. This release is <b>not supported</b> in production.</note></p>
    <draft-comment author="amarantha"><ul>
      <li></li>
      <li>Limitation: If Query service is not running on a node, Web console will not display the Query tab. </li>
      <li>Bucket expand to show schema will be available only in EE. Check with Anil for CE confirmation.</li>
      <li>Infer command to show how different flavors are shown.</li>
    </ul></draft-comment>
    
    
  </body>
</topic>
