<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_gbk_tyh_t5">
  <title>Release Notes</title>
  <body>
    <p>Couchbase Server 4.5 leaps forward with faster, simpler, and more secure data processing.
      Take a look at <xref href="whats-new.dita">What's new?</xref> for a list of new features and
      improvements that are available in this Developer Preview release. <note type="important">The
        developer preview version of Couchbase Server 4.5  is intended for development purposes
        only. We consider developer preview releases to have some rough edges and bugs, and may
        change significantly before the final GA release. The preview release is <b>not
          supported</b> in production.</note></p>
    <p>This Developer Preview(DP) release version of Couchbase Server 4.5 includes new features and
      behavior changes. The following sections list out the upgrade considerations, behavior
      changes, limitations, known issues, and deprecated items.</p>
    
    <section><title>Upgrade</title>
      <p>Couchbase Server 4.5 Developer Preview requires a fresh install of Couchbase. Upgrading
        from an earlier version of Couchbase Server is not supported in the Developer Preview
        release.</p>
    </section>
    
   <section><title>Behavior Changes</title>
     <p>Here are the behavior changes in the product, compared to the previous release:</p>
   <p><ul>
     <li>Disabling scientific notation for integers. With this change, large integers are no longer
            displayed in the scientific notation in N1QL. Details for the change can be found in
              <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-14720" format="html"
              scope="external">MB-14720</xref>.</li>
     <li><codeph>PENDING</codeph> index state is now represented as <codeph>DEFERRED</codeph> and
              <codeph>BUILDING</codeph>. With this change, global indexes no longer display a
              <codeph>PENDING</codeph> state under the status in <codeph>SYSTEM:INDEXES</codeph>.
            Instead, global indexes that are actively being built display <codeph>BUILDING</codeph>
            and global indexes that are created with the <codeph>DEFER_BUILD</codeph> option display
              <codeph>DEFERRED</codeph> for the status attribute in the
              <codeph>SYSTEM:INDEXES</codeph> output in N1QL. Details for the change can be found in
              <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-14679" format="html"
              scope="external">MB-14679</xref>.</li>
     <li>The new <cmdname>backup</cmdname> tool is not backward compatible with older backup files
            from previous releases. If you want to take a backup of a previous release and then load
            and restore it in Couchbase 4.5, you should use the <cmdname>cbbackup</cmdname> tool
            (not the new <cmdname>backup</cmdname> tool). After you restore the data into release
            4.5, you can start using the new <cmdname>backup</cmdname> tool for subsequent
            backup/restore operations to other Couchbase Server 4.5 nodes.</li>
     <li>In the top left corner of the Couchbase Web Console, there is a link to the <term> Classic
              UI</term>, which is provided as a workaround for testing in case you encounter any
            issues with new angular-based UI. The <wintitle>Classic UI</wintitle> link will be
            removed in the  4.5 GA release. </li>
          <li>New network ports: <p>
              <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_gn4_rd1_cv">
                <title>New Network Ports in Couchbase Server 4.5 DP</title>
                <tgroup cols="7">
                  <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
                  <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2*"/>
                  <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1*"/>
                  <colspec colname="c4" colnum="4" colwidth="1*"/>
                  <colspec colname="c5" colnum="5" colwidth="1*"/>
                  <colspec colname="c6" colnum="6" colwidth="1"/>
                  <colspec colname="c7" colnum="7" colwidth="1*"/>
                  <thead>
                    <row>
                      <entry>Port</entry>
                      <entry>Description</entry>
                      <entry>Node-to-node</entry>
                      <entry>Node-to-client</entry>
                      <entry>Cluster administration</entry>
                      <entry>XDCR v1 (CAPI)</entry>
                      <entry>XDCR v2 (XMEM)</entry>
                    </row>
                  </thead>
                  <tbody>
                    <row>
                      <entry>9110</entry>
                      <entry>External FTS HTTP port</entry>
                      <entry>Yes</entry>
                      <entry>Yes</entry>
                      <entry>Yes</entry>
                      <entry>No</entry>
                      <entry>No</entry>
                    </row>
                  </tbody>
                </tgroup>
              </table>
            </p></li>
   </ul></p> </section> 
<section><title>Limitations</title>
      <p>Here are the limitations you will encounter when using Couchbase Server 4.5 Developer
        Preview:</p> 
        <p><b>Full Text Search (FTS)</b></p>
  <ul><li>FTS is only supported on a single node in a cluster. You can have multiple nodes in
          the cluster, but only one node can run the FTS service. <note type="note">You are not
            prevented from starting the FTS service on multiple nodes. However, if you do, you may
            encounter undefined behavior. </note></li>
          <li>FTS won’t have the following options: rebalance, failover or rollback. </li>
           <li>Experimental FTS API support is available in Java 2.2.4 with Couchbase 4.5 DP
          availability. <!--Experimental FTS API support begins with the following SDK versions
          currently scheduled for early April 2016: Python 2.0.9, GO 1.06, NET 2.2.7, and Node.js
          2.1.5.--></li>
          <li>There is currently no authorization enforcement for FTS operations</li>
      </ul>
      <p><b>Querying and Indexing</b></p>
      <ul>
        <li>Query monitoring and profiling information is accessed through <cmdname>cbq</cmdname>
          command-line, Query Workbench, and REST APIs.</li>
        <li>The Couchbase Web Console does not display the <wintitle>Query</wintitle> tab if the
          query service on that node is not installed and running. The tab will show links to other
          nodes in the cluster that are running the query service.</li>
        
        <li>The Array Indexing feature has these limitations in 4.5 Developer Preview: <ul>
            <li>Supports only <codeph>ARRAY</codeph>, <codeph>DISTINCT</codeph>,
              <codeph>IN</codeph>, and <codeph>WITHIN</codeph> operators.</li>
            <li>Does not support covering indexes.</li>
            <li>Does not maintain duplicate elements of an array or the position of elements within
              an array, and hence does not support expressions reconstructing the full array, or
              address the elements by position. </li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Memory-optimized indexes are not supported on Windows 64-bit <!--and 32-bit -->platform.</li>
        <li>Memory-optimized indexes is a cluster-wide setting and currently cannot coexist with
          other types of GSI indexes such as ForestDB. Memory-optimized indexes <b>must</b>
          completely fit in memory. Mutations will not get propagated to the indexes in case of
          out-of-memory errors.</li>
        <li>During installation, you can choose between ForestDB or Memory Optimized Indexes to
          manage Global Secondary Indexes. Changing the optimization mode of global indexes is not
          supported when index service nodes are present in the cluster. <b>Remove all index service
            nodes to change this option.</b></li>
        <li>Array Indexes are limited to array size of 10KB: <xref
            href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-18121" format="html" scope="external"
            >MB-18121</xref></li> 
        <li><codeph>UNNEST</codeph> queries cannot use array indexes: <xref
            href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17873" format="html" scope="external"
            >MB-17873</xref>
        </li>
      </ul>
      
      <p><b>Administrative Roles</b></p>
      <ul>
      
          <li>Only the role of the full administrator is implemented in this preview. Administrators
            will have to log into Couchbase using full administrator credentials to manage the
            cluster.</li>
      </ul>
      <p><b>Sub-Document API</b></p>
      <ul>
       <li>Experimental Sub-Document API Support is available beginning with GO 1.04, Java SDK 2.2.4, and in
          libcouchbase (C) 2.5.6 Couchbase 4.5 DP availability. <!--<p>Experimental Sub-Document API
          support in early March 2016, with the following SDK versions: Python 2.0.8, Java 2.2.5,
          NET 2.2.6, and Node.js 2.1.4. </p>--></li>
        </ul>
  <p><b>Enterprise Backup and Restore</b></p>
  <ul>
    <li>Enterprise Backup and Restore feature is not supported on Windows.</li>
  </ul>
    </section>
    <section><title>Known Issues</title>
      <p>This list covers some of the known problems with Couchbase Server 4.5 Developer Preview. 
        Please read this before reporting any new bugs, and watch for updates as new bugs are discovered.</p>
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_n1b_rv1_2t1">
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2" colwidth="3.38*"/>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><b>Issue</b></entry>
              <entry><b>Description</b></entry>
            </row>
            <!--<row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-18392" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-18392</xref></entry>
              <entry>Full text search is not supported on Windows 32-bit platforms. <p>Workaround: Try
                the full text search functionality on Windows 64-bit platforms.</p></entry>
            </row>-->
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-18357" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-18357</xref></entry>
              <entry>Memory-optimized indexes are not supported on Windows 64-bit<!-- and 32-bit-->
                platform. On Windows platforms, using GSI with memory-optimized indexes may cause
                the indexer to throw an exception.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-18160" format="html"
                scope="external">MB-18160</xref></entry>
              <entry><codeph>SCRAM-SHA512 </codeph>and <codeph>SCRAM-SHA256</codeph> do not apply
                for OSX.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-18152" format="html"
                scope="external">MB-18152</xref></entry>
              <entry>UI: Indexer storage option is frozen to <codeph>global</codeph> for the first
                indexer node after setting indexer storage to
                <codeph>memory-optimised</codeph>.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-18149" format="html"
                scope="external">MB-18149</xref></entry>
              <entry>Removing a document with a correct CAS fails after removal was tried with a
                wrong CAS.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-18137" format="html"
                scope="external">MB-18137</xref></entry>
              <entry>N1QL: Array Indexing - Indexing <codeph>meta().id</codeph> with an array gives
                an incorrect result for the select meta fields.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-18128" format="html"
                scope="external">MB-18128</xref></entry>
              <entry>Composite Array Indexes on fields within the same array do not work as
                desired.</entry>
            </row>
              <row>
                <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-18122" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-18122</xref></entry>
                <entry>Array Indexing: Support duplicates array items indexing.</entry>
              </row>
            <row>
              
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-18110" format="html"
                scope="external">MB-18110</xref></entry>
              <entry>Enterprise Backup and Restore: <cmdname>backup cluster</cmdname> command is not
                working on Windows.</entry></row>
            
            <row>
      
        <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-18096" format="html"
                scope="external">MB-18096</xref></entry>
              <entry>When adding a node to a cluster, <cmdname>add-node</cmdname> does not correctly
                deploy the selected services.</entry></row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17883" format="html"
                scope="external">MB-17883</xref></entry>
              <entry>N1QL: Index created on an array(not an array index) not being preferred over
                primary index.</entry>
            </row> <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17877" format="html"
                scope="external">MB-17877</xref></entry>
              <entry>N1QL: Composite Array Index is not preferred over single array index. It can be
                overcome via USE INDEX. </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17873" format="html"
                scope="external">MB-17873</xref></entry>
              <entry>N1QL: UNNEST queries don't work with array indexes.</entry>
            </row><row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17829" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-17829</xref></entry>
              <entry>FTS: No indexing activity noted for 60 seconds. </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17433" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-17433</xref></entry>
              <entry>FTS: Unable to create more than 10 indexes.</entry>
            </row>
           
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-17042" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-17042</xref></entry>
              <entry>Memcached was not terminated properly during Couchbase Server shutdown.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16712" format="html"
                scope="external">MB-16712</xref></entry>
              <entry>Flush operation failed for the sample <codeph>travel</codeph> bucket.</entry>
            </row>
           
            <row>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-16100" format="html"
                  scope="external">MB-16100</xref></entry>
              <entry>Spatial views are broken after rebalance.</entry>
            </row>
           
    
          </tbody>
        </tgroup></table>
    </section>

    <section><title>Deprecated Items</title>
      <p><b>Support for Windows 32-bit Platform</b></p>
      <p>The Microsoft Windows 32-bit operating system is not supported starting with the version
        4.5 (Developer Preview) of Couchbase Server.</p>
      <p><b>Functionality</b></p>
      <p>The following functionality is deprecated in this release.</p>
        <p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_bl3_533_1v">
         
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="3.44*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Function</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>BASE64()</codeph>
                </entry>
                <entry>The <codeph>BASE64()</codeph> function is deprecated in this release; use the
                  function <codeph>BASE64_ENCODE()</codeph> instead. <p>Also, use the
                      <codeph>BASE64_DECODE()</codeph> function to reverse the encoding done by
                      <codeph>BASE64_ENCODE().</codeph></p></entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
