<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_zdj_n3s_w5">
  <title>Tooling</title>
  <body>
    <p>Couchbase provides a number of tools to empower developers to work with data and also perform administrative operations. </p>
    <p>When developing with a document database such as Couchbase, a typical development environment consists of the following workflow:<ul>
      <li><b>Exploring Data</b>
          <ul>
            <li>Do I have access to the application's data?</li>
            <li>Is the data indexed and available for querying?</li>
            <li>What's the schema for the JSON documents?</li>
          </ul></li>
      <li><b>Active Development</b><ul>
            <li>Is my N1QL query syntax correct?</li>
            <li>Does it compile?</li>
            <li>Does the N1QL query solve the problem?</li>
          </ul></li>
      <li><b>Running Tests</b><ul>
            <li>Does the query run successfully?</li>
            <li>How does it perform?</li>
            <li>How can I optimize my N1QL query to run faster? </li>
          </ul></li>
      <li><b>Maintenance</b><ul>
        <li>Did my application data and its document schema change?</li>
        <li>Do I need to update my N1QL query and re-execute?</li></ul></li>
        </ul></p>
<p> In this early milestone release of Couchbase Server 4.5, we are introducing two new such tools -
        <xref href="query-workbench.dita">Query Workbench</xref> and <xref href="query-monitoring.dita">Query Monitoring</xref>. The Query Workbench provides a visual interface to design and test simple and complex queries. It provides functionality to enable every stage of query development. Query Monitoring helps monitor, troubleshoot, and tune the system to improve performance.</p>
    <p>For administration, we’re introducing a new backup and restore tool that can back up large datasets with a much higher performance than before. The new backup and restore tool enables Couchbase Server to provide faster recovery with better RTO (Recovery Time Objective) and RPO (Recovery Point Objective). It is scalable and more efficient than the older version of the tool. See <xref href="enterprise-backup-restore.dita"></xref> for more information. </p>
  </body>
</topic>
