<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ghd_55f_nbb">
  <title>Microsoft Azure and Couchbase</title>
  <body>
    <p>Couchbase works closely with Microsoft to enable a seamless user experience on Azure. At the core of this experience are best practices codified as Azure Resource Manager (ARM) templates. These templates are developed in close collaboration with the Azure Engineering team in Redmond and leverage the latest Azure features, including Virtual Machine Scale Sets (VMSS), Managed Disks, and Premium Storage. This simplifies both deployment and operations.</p>
    <p>Couchbase is available through the Microsoft Azure Marketplace (AMP) with hourly pricing or through a Bring Your Own License (BYOL) model. Instructions for deploying through AMP are provided here.</p>
    <p>You can also deploy Couchbase with the ARM templates that we host on GitHub. Information on that is available here.</p>
    <p>Best practices are detailed in this document.  Other resources detailing the Microsoft/Couchbase partnership are available https://www.couchbase.com/partners/microsoft.</p>   
    <section id="azure-cli">
      <title>Deploying Couchbase Using Azure CLI</title>
      <p>You can use the Azure Resource Management(ARM) templates to install Couchbase Enterprise using Azure CLI or the Azure Portal. The template provisions a virtual network, VM Scale Sets (VMSS), Managed Disks with Premium Storage and public IPs with a DNS record per node. It also sets up a network security group.</p>
      <p>To get the templates and details on how to use the templates, see <xref
          href="https://github.com/couchbase-partners/azure-resource-manager-couchbase"
          format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
      <p><note type="important">These templates are provided as references and are not officially supported
          by Couchbase. </note></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
