<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ghd_55f_nbb">
  <title>Google Cloud Platform and Couchbase</title>
  <body>
    <p>
      Couchbase partners with Google to provide best practices, Deployment Manager (DM) templates and a packaged solution on Cloud Launcher.  These all enable users to get up and running with Couchbase on Google Cloud Platform (GCP) quickly and easily.
    </p>
    <p>
      Couchbase is a Google Partner.  We’ve worked closely with the GCP engineering team to adopt the latest features.  Our templates leverage Google’s globally flat network for extremely secure geographical replication and we are the first software vendor to leverage Instance Group Manager (IGM) in a Cloud Launcher template, simplifying cluster management and scaling while improving resilience to hardware failures.
    </p>
    <p>
      Couchbase is available through Google Cloud Launcher with hourly pricing or through a bring your own license (BYOL) model.  Instructions for deploying with Cloud Launcher are here.
    </p>
    <p>
      You can also deploy Couchbase with the DM templates that we host on GitHub.  Those are very full featured and support both MDS and XDCR.
    </p>
    <p>
      Best practices are detailed in this document.  Other resources on the Google/Couchbase partnership are available here (goes live 10/18) https://console.cloud.google.com/launcher/partners/couchbase-public
    </p>
    <section id="azure-cli">
      <title>Deploying Couchbase Using Google Deployment Manager</title>
      <p>You can use the Google Deployment Manager(DM) templates to deploy Couchbase Enterprise to
        Google Compute Engine (GCE) on Google Cloud Platform(GCP).</p>
      <p>To get the templates and details on how to use the templates, see <xref
          href="https://github.com/couchbase-partners/google-deployment-manager-couchbase"
          format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
      <p><note type="important">These templates are provided as references and are not officially supported
          by Couchbase. </note></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
