<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_cn2_5ck_r5">
    <title>Release notes</title><shortdesc>Release notes for the 1.2 version of the Kafka connector.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
    <section>
        <title>Couchbase Kafka Connector 1.2.1 GA (23 December 2015)</title>
        <p>Version 1.2.1 is the general availability (GA) release of the Kafka connector. It fixes
                several important issues such as  KAFKA-20, KAFKA-21, improves the performance of
                default Zookeeper initializer and makes state management more precise. </p>
            
        <p><b>New features and behavioral changes</b></p>
                <p>This release contains the following:</p>

                <ul>
                    <li>
                    <xref href="https://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/KAFKAC-20" format="html"
                        scope="external">KAFKAC-20</xref>: By default the state for stream has been
                    stored incorrectly, which leads to rollbacks and ERR_RANGE errors. The issue has
                    been fixed in the core Java library, and the connector code has been adopted to
                    it. The API of building state has been changed, and now it initializes
                    vbucketUUID property of the stream state. For example: <codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[CouchbaseKafkaConnector connector = CouchbaseKafkaConnector.create(builder.build());
BucketStreamAggregatorState state = connector.buildState(Direction.TO_CURRENT);
connector.run(state, RunMode.RESUME);
]]></codeblock>The API change <codeph>CouchbaseKafkaConnector.buildState()</codeph> does not accept
                    a name for the state. In general,  the name of the state has been removed from
                    the public API. </li>
                    <li>
                    <xref href="https://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/KAFKAC-21" format="html"
                        scope="external">KAFKAC-21</xref>: Improve performance of Zookeeper by
                    fixing the bug, when it triggered iteration over all streams to persist the
                    state when just one was changed. Also, an option to throttle write rate of the
                    serializer introduced: <codeph>couchbaseStateSerializationThreshold()</codeph>
                    which controls minimum period in milliseconds (by default 2) which have to pass
                    between to state serialization operation. Under high load, this option could be
                    larger. </li>
                    <li>
                    <xref href="https://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/KAFKAC-23" format="html"
                        scope="external">KAFKAC-23</xref>: This improvement exposes sequence number
                    for each mutation and removes message going in DCP stream so that it could be
                    used to inspect the current state. </li>
                </ul>
            </section>



<section>
        <title>Couchbase Kafka Connector 1.2.0 GA (13 October 2015)</title>
    <p> Version 1.2.0 is the general availability (GA) release of the Kafka connector. 
        It fixes issues with missing events in the streams, improves state initialization, 
        and introduces flow control.</p>
   
    
    <p><b>New features and behavioral changes</b> </p>
                <p>This release contains the following features:</p>

                <ul>
                    <li>
                        <xref href="https://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/KAFKAC-16" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-16</xref>:
                        Helper to gather current state of the streams, to simplify initialization of the streams. For example the following code will fetch all changes up to current state. See more info on documentation for class <codeph>Direction</codeph>.
			<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[CouchbaseKafkaConnector connector = CouchbaseKafkaConnector.create(builder.build());
BucketStreamAggregatorState state = connector.buildState("hello", Direction.TO_CURRENT);
connector.run(state, RunMode.RESUME);
]]></codeblock>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <xref href="https://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/KAFKAC-11" format="html" scope="external">KAFKAC-11</xref>: Update Zookeeper state serializer to work with recent core library.
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        Allow to override Couchbase and Kafka credentials during connector initialization from the code.
			<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[CouchbaseKafkaConnector connector = CouchbaseKafkaConnector.create(
        Collections.singletonList("couchbase1.vagrant"), "default", "",
        "kafka1.vagrant", "default",
        environmtnt);
]]></codeblock>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                    <xref href="https://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/JVMCBC-217" format="html"
                        scope="external">JVMCBC-217</xref>: In the core library flow control for
                    streaming connection has been implemented. The connector can specify the buffer
                    limit, which represents the capacity of the events consumer. When the producer
                    (Couchbase Server) will reach this value, it will stop emitting the events until
                    the connector will notify about free space. The API of this feature is exposed
                    as two settings:
                        <ul>
                            <li><codeph>dcpConnectionBufferSize()</codeph> represents the size of
                            the window in bytes (default value is 20MB)</li>
                            <li><codeph>dcpConnectionBufferAckThreshold()</codeph> controls when the
                            connector will emit the buffer acknowledgement message. The default is
                            4MB, which means that the acknowledgements will be sent while the
                            current buffer level is greater than this value.</li>
                        </ul>
                         </li>
                </ul>
            </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>





