<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="cbstats-checkpoint">
	
	<title><cmdname>checkpoint</cmdname></title>
	<shortdesc>Provides detailed information on per-vbucket checkpoint data structure.</shortdesc>
	<refbody>
		<section><title>Syntax</title>
			<p>Request syntax:</p>
			<codeblock>cbstats [host]:11210 checkpoint			</codeblock>
		</section>
		<section><title>Description</title>


			<p>This command provides detailed information on per-vbucket checkpoint data structure.
				</p>
			<note type="note">Requesting checkpoint stats impacts the performance and should not be used
				frequently.</note>
		</section>

			
			
	<table>
		<title>cbstats checkpoint values</title>
		<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
					<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2.19*"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Stat</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>cursor_name:cursor_checkpoint_id</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Checkpoint ID at which the cursor ‘cursor_name’ is pointing
								now.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>open_checkpoint_id</codeph></entry>
							<entry>ID of the current open checkpoint.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>num_tap_cursors</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of referencing TAP cursors.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>num_checkpoint_items</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of total items in a checkpoint data structure.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>num_open_checkpoint_items</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of items in the open checkpoint.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>num_checkpoints</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of checkpoints in a checkpoint data structure.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>num_items_for_persistence</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Number of items remaining for persistence.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>checkpoint_extension</codeph></entry>
							<entry>True if the open checkpoint is in the extension mode.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>state</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The state of the vbucket for which this checkpoint contfaiuns
								data.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>last_closed_checkpoint_id</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The last closed checkpoint number.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>persisted_checkpoint_id</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The last persisted checkpoint number.</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
	</table>
			
		
		
		<section><title>Options</title>
			<p>The following are the command options:</p>
			
			<table><title>checkpoint options</title>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colnum="1" colname="c1" colwidth="1*"/>
					<colspec colnum="2" colname="c2" colwidth="3.17*"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Options</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>-h, --help</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Shows the help message and exits.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>-a</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Iterates over all the vBuckets. Requires administrator username and password.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>-b [bucket-name]</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The vBucket to get the status from. Default: default</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>-p [password]</codeph></entry>
							<entry>The password for the vBucket if one exists.</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
		</section>
		
	
		
		<section><title>Example</title>
		<p>Request example:</p>
			<codeblock>cbstats 10.5.2.117:11210 checkpoint			</codeblock>
		
			<p><b>Response:</b></p>
			<codeblock>
 vb_0:last_closed_checkpoint_id:    1
 vb_0:num_checkpoint_items:         1
 vb_0:num_checkpoints:              1
 vb_0:num_items_for_persistence:    0
 vb_0:num_open_checkpoint_items:    0
 vb_0:num_tap_cursors:              0
 vb_0:open_checkpoint_id:           2
 vb_0:persisted_checkpoint_id:      1
 vb_0:state:                        active
 ...
 vb_9:last_closed_checkpoint_id:    1
 vb_9:num_checkpoint_items:         1
 vb_9:num_checkpoints:              1
 vb_9:num_items_for_persistence:    0
 vb_9:num_open_checkpoint_items:    0
 vb_9:num_tap_cursors:              0
 vb_9:open_checkpoint_id:           2
 vb_9:persisted_checkpoint_id:      1
 vb_9:state:                        active
			</codeblock>
		</section>
	</refbody>




</reference>
