<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_kfd_4yk_sp">
  <title>Getting Server Group Information</title>
  <shortdesc>Server group information is retrieved with the <codeph>GET /pools/default/serverGroups</codeph> HTTP method and URI.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section><title>HTTP method and URI</title>
      
      <p><codeph>GET /pools/default/serverGroups</codeph> retrieves information about server groups. Provides
      group information, <codeph>"groups": [(&lt;groupInfo&gt;)+]</codeph>, where each server
      group has unique URIs and UUIDs.</p>
      
      <codeblock>GET /pools/default/serverGroups             </codeblock>
    </section>
      
      <section><title>Syntax</title>
        <codeblock>curl -X GET -u &lt;administrator&gt;:&lt;password&gt; 
   http://&lt;host&gt;:&lt;port&gt;/pools/default/serverGroups</codeblock>
      </section>
      
      <section><title>Example</title>
      <codeblock>curl -X GET -u myAdmin:myPassword \ 
   http://192.168.0.1:8091/pools/default/serverGroups</codeblock>
      </section>
      
      
      
      <section><title>Response</title>
      <codeblock>{"groups":
   [
      {
      "name":"&lt;groupName&gt;", 
      "uri": "/pools/default/serverGroups?rev=&lt;integer&gt;",
      "addNodeURI":"/pools/default/serverGroups/0",
      "nodes":[(&lt;nodeInfo&gt;)+]
      }
    ]
}
</codeblock>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Group arguments</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>"groups": [(&lt;groupInfo&gt;)+]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Information about server groups.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>"name":"&lt;groupName&gt;"</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Specifies the name of the group. If the group name has a space, for example,
                Group A, use double quotes (for example, <codeph>"Group A"</codeph>). If the name
                does not have spaces (for example, GroupA) double quotes are not required.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>"uri":"/pools/default/serverGroups?rev=&lt;integer&gt;"</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Specifies the URI path and revision integer.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>"uri":"/pools/default/serverGroups/&lt;:uuid&gt;"</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Specifies the URI path and UUID string.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>"addNodeURI":"/pools/default/serverGroups/&lt;:uuid&gt;/addNode</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Specifies the URI path and UUID string for adding servers to a server
                group.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>"nodes": [(&lt;nodeInfo&gt;+)]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Information about the servers.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
