<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_zhc_crm_pp">
	<title>C SDK 2.4/2.5</title>
	<shortdesc>
		The Couchbase C SDK provides a fast, callback-based API for interacting with your
		Couchbase cluster. It operates as a single threaded asynchronous I/O library that can be
		optionally integrated with an existing asynchronous application. It can also run standalone
		within a traditional synchronous or threaded application as well.</shortdesc>
	<conbody>
		
		<p>The SDK is cross-platform and can be used on Linux, Mac OS X, or Windows. </p>
		<p>Here's a sampling of what you can do with the Couchbase C SDK:</p>

		<section>
			<title>Operations</title>
			<p>Interacting with your cluster involves populating a command structure and receiving a
				related response structure in the callback. The response contains an optional pointer
				that can be set to application-level data, so that you may have your application context
				within the callback.</p>
			<p>Callbacks are installed as handlers for specific command types, so retrieving objects
				will have one callback while saving them will have another. Response structures also
				vary depending on the operation performed; for example a response for a <i>get</i>
				request will contain the value retrieved from the server, while a response for a
					<i>store</i> request will only contain status information.</p>
			<p>A callback model is employed so that response data does not need to be copied to a
				temporary buffer, but is rather passed to your callback <i>as it is received off the
					network</i>, making functionality very fast.</p>
		</section>
		<section>
			<title>Commands</title>
			<p>A command structure describes the various inputs for the operation that is to be
				performed on the server. For example, a command for a <i>get</i> request will contain a
				pointer to the buffer of the key to
				retrieve:<codeblock outputclass="language-c">lcb_get_cmd_t gcmd = { 0 };
gcmd.v.v0.key = "id_key";
gcmd.v.v0.nkey = strlen(gcmd.v.v0.key);</codeblock>The
				length, or <codeph>nkey</codeph>, field must be provided to tell the library how many
				bytes to read from the buffer.</p>
		</section>
		<section>
			<title>Operation Functions</title>
			<p>After an operation structure has been populated, you can pass it to the appropriate
				operation API. The operation APIs all take an array of command pointers (so as to enable
				passing multiple commands to a single API). In addition to the command structure itself,
				the APIs also allow for a pointer (named <codeph>cookie</codeph>) that is passed to the
				callback handler to allow you to associate application data within the
				callback.<codeblock outputclass="language-c">lcb_get_cmd_t *cmdlist[] = { &amp;gcmd };
lcb_get(instance, "cookie_pointer", 1, cmdlist);</codeblock></p>In
			the above snippet, <codeph>instance</codeph> is a library object that represents the
			connection to your cluster (see <xref href="managing-connections.dita#concept_ppz_lhq_44"
			 />). The <apiname>lcb_get</apiname> API is described in more detail in <xref
				href="retrieving.dita#concept_yny_mhq_44" />. </section>
		<section>
			<title>Operation Responses</title>
			<p>To receive a response for the operation, the library must first be instructed to send
				the request to the cluster and await its response. In order for the response to be
				delivered to the application, the application will have needed to install a callback for
				the specific operation type.</p>
			<p>The callback is passed the <i>cookie</i> pointer (the application data), a status code
				(to check if the operation failed or not), and a response structure containing the
				details of the
				result.<codeblock outputclass="language-c">static void
get_handler(lcb_t instance,
            const void *cookie,
            lcb_error_t err,
            const lcb_get_resp_t *resp)
{
  printf("Got response for key: %.*s\n", (int)resp->v.v0.nkey, resp->v.v0.key);
  printf("Value: %.*s\n", (int)resp->v.v0.nbytes, resp->v.v0.bytes);
  printf("My cookie is: %s\n", cookie);
}</codeblock>For
					<codeph>get</codeph> operations, the response contains the key passed to the command and the
				value of the item retrieved from the server. Note that the <codeph>cookie</codeph> passed along
				here is the same pointer passed to the <codeph>lcb_get</codeph> operation (and in this example,
				will print <codeph>"cookie"</codeph>. Note that your context need not be a string or
				even be a valid pointer in memory because it is not dereferenced by the library at all.</p>
			<p>To associate the callback with <codeph>get</codeph> operations, 
				call:<codeblock outputclass="language-c">lcb_set_get_callback(instance, get_callback)</codeblock>Note
				that the callback is invoked for all get operations performed on the specific
					<codeph>instance</codeph> object, and thus need only be installed once per
				instance.</p>
			<p>To actually wait for the response to arrive,
					call:<codeblock outputclass="language-c">lcb_wait(instance);</codeblock>l<codeph>cb_wait()</codeph>
				waits for the operation to complete. When the operation is complete, the callback is
				invoked (in other words, the callback is always invoked with the
					<apiname>lcb_wait</apiname> function at the bottom of the call stack).</p>
		</section>
		<section>
			<title>Storing Items</title>
			<p>Storing items follows the same semantics as above, save for differences in API calls and
				command structures. When storing an item to the cluster, the value must be provided to
				the command structure as
				well:<codeblock outputclass="language-c">lcb_store_cmd_t scmd = { 0 };
scmd.v.v0.key = "id_key";
scmd.v.v0.bytes = "{\"json\":\"value\"}";
scmd.v.v0.nkey = strlen(scmd.v.v0.key);
scmd.v.v0.nbytes = strlen(scmd.v.v0.bytes);
scmd.v.v0.operation = LCB_ADD; /* Fail if the item already exists */

/* Create the command array */
lcb_store_cmd_t *cmdlist[] = { &amp;scmd };
lcb_store(instance, "some cookie", 1, cmdlist);
lcb_wait(instance);</codeblock>Normally
				you would also want to install a callback to inspect the status of the storage
				operation. More details about the <apiname>lcb_store()</apiname> function can be found
				in <xref href="storing.dita#concept_az5_mhq_44" />.</p>
			<p>You are not limited to storing JSON. You can store any sequence of bytes into the
				cluster. However, JSON is easiest to work with if you want to query the data using
				views.</p>
		</section>
	</conbody>
</concept>
