<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_fbp_tnb_pr">
  <title>Client command-line tools</title>
    <shortdesc>Some command line utilities are available as an optional add-on with the C client
		library. These tools provide quick and common access to cluster operations without requiring
		you to write code.</shortdesc>
    <body>
        <p>The C library contains several command line tools in its source repository. When
            distributed in binary form, they are available as an add-on package on Linux
                (<codeph>libcouchbase2-bin</codeph>). They come bundled with the default packages on
            OS X and Windows.</p>
        <p>
            <note>The C client tools are distinct from the Couchbase Server command-line tools that
				are available with the server installation</note>
        </p>
        <p>The tools use the C SDK internally and thus function similarly in many respects to other
			libraries built on top of the C SDK. The full reference documentation is available in the
			API reference in HTML format and as standard Unix man pages (where applicable).</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="topic_xyb_fds_zr">
        <title>Common usage</title>
        <body>
            <p>While the library offers several command-line tools, they conform to similar rules.
				Specifically, all client-based command-line tools follow a specific format when
				connecting to the cluster.</p>
            <section><title>Connecting</title>To connect to a cluster, pass the cluster's <i><xref
                        href="options.dita#topic_k5w_kzt_4r">connection string</xref></i> to the
                    <codeph>-U</codeph> option. If your bucket requires a password, you can specify
                the password using the <codeph>-P</codeph> option. The value to the
                    <codeph>-P</codeph> option can either be a literal password string (insecure,
                but more convenient when testing), or a dash (<codeph>-</codeph>), which will cause
                the command line tool to prompt for the password once during execution. The latter
                method is more secure and should be used when connecting to production
                password-protected buckets.</section>
            <section><title>Logging</title>Logging can be enabled by passing the <codeph>-v</codeph>
				option. In accordance with many traditional command line tools, the verbosity of the
				logging may be increased by passing the <codeph>-v</codeph> option more than
				once.</section>
            <section><title>Connection String Options</title>While connection string options can be
				passed directly inside the connection string, they can also be specified on the command
				line directly by using the <codeph>-D</codeph> option. The <codeph>-D</codeph> option
				can be supplied multiple times and functions similarly to the option of the same name as
				used in the C
				preprocessor.<codeblock>cbc cat foo -U couchbase://localhost/default?certpath=/foo/bar/baz?operation_timeout=5.0
# Simpler
cbc cat foo -U couchbase://localhost/default -Dcertpath=/foo/bar/baz -Doperation_timeout=5.0</codeblock></section>
        </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="topic_g2g_m3s_zr">
        <title>List of tools</title>
        <body>
            <p>The following command-line tools are available<ul id="ul_ft5_n3s_zr">
					<li><codeph>cbc</codeph> is the Swiss Army knife utility that allows you to inspect,
						store, retrieve, and manipulate documents and their metadata on the cluster.</li>
					<li><codeph>cbc-pillowfight</codeph> is a stress test tool that places a load on the
						server and measures client-server performance with respect to key-value
						operations</li>
					<li><codeph>cbc-n1qlback</codeph> is a stress tool that executes N1QL queries
						repeatedly against the server.</li>
				</ul></p>
            <p>The canonical documentation for the command line tools can be found in the API
				reference. If you have installed these tools on a Unix-like system, each of these tools
				has its own <codeph>man</codeph> page that you can use to view the documentation.</p>
        </body>
    </topic>
</topic>
