<?xml version='1.0' ?><!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA 1.1 Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="c-download-install">
	<title>Download and API Reference</title>
	<shortdesc>You can install the C SDK from a repository for your platform, download prebuilt
		binaries, or compile from source.</shortdesc>
	
	
		<body>
			<p>The latest API reference can be found at <xref
					href="http://docs.couchbase.com/sdk-api/couchbase-c-client-2.5.3/" format="html"
					scope="external" />. The API documentation is generated from the source package using
				the <xref href="http://www.stack.nl/%7Edimitri/doxygen/" format="html" scope="external"
					>Doxygen</xref> utility. See the source <codeph>README</codeph> for instructions on
				how to generate the documentation locally.</p>
		
	<section>
		<title>Linux quick start</title>
	
			<p>You can use the simple setup script to configure your system to get the most common C
				SDK packages. This can be used on any Enterprise Linux (CentOS, Red Hat Enterprise
				Linux) or Debian-based (Ubuntu, Debian) distribution. The script performs the following
				installation tasks:<ul id="ol_cfm_kfb_bq">
					<li>Configures your distribution to use the Couchbase software repositories</li>
					<li>Installs the core library distribution</li>
					<li>Installs the command line utilities (<cmdname>cbc</cmdname> and
							<cmdname>cbc-pillowfight</cmdname>)</li>
					<li>Installs the development files needed for using SDKs that rely on the C SDK</li>
				</ul></p>
			<p>To use the script, you need to have Perl installed on your system. Virtually all Linux
				distributions already have Perl installed as a core component of the distribution. The
				script prompts you whenever it needs to make changes to your system or packages.</p>
			<p>To get started, download the script from <xref
					href="http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/c/couchbase-csdk-setup" format="html"
					scope="external">http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/c/couchbase-csdk-setup</xref>.
				To run the script, enter the following
				commands:<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">shell> wget http://packages.couchbase.com/clients/c/couchbase-csdk-setup
shell> sudo perl couchbase-csdk-setup</codeblock></p>

		
	</section>
			
			
			
	<section>
				<title>Linux advanced installation </title><p>If you want to manually install the C
					SDK, either from a static binary package or by manually configuring the
					repositories, you can use the following procedures. </p><p><b>Common Binary
						Packages</b></p><p>The various Linux distributions contain the following
						packages:<ul id="ul_shp_qnc_bq">
						<li><codeph>libcouchbase2-core</codeph>: The core library package</li>
						<li><codeph>libcouchbase-dev</codeph> (or
								<codeph>libcouchbase-devel</codeph>): The development package,
							required if building SDKs which depend on the C SDK</li>
						<li><codeph>libcouchbase2-bin</codeph>: The command line utilities
								(<cmdname>cbc</cmdname> and <cmdname>cbc-pillowfight</cmdname>)</li>
						<li><codeph>libcouchbase2-libevent</codeph>: Optional but recommended
							component for I/O performance. Can also be used to integrate with
								<apiname>libevent</apiname> (see <xref
								href="external-eventloop.dita#concept_nf3_kz4_p4"/>).</li>
						<li><codeph>libcouchbase2-libev</codeph>: Optional, for use with
							applications that make use of event loop integration with
								<apiname>libev</apiname> (see <xref
								href="external-eventloop.dita#concept_nf3_kz4_p4"/>). </li>
					</ul></p><p><b>Configuring yum repositories (CentOS, Redhat Enteprise
					Linux)</b></p>This section assumes you know how to add an external <xref
					href="http://yum.baseurl.org" format="html" scope="external">yum</xref>
				repository and Linux quick start  explains the steps it will perform on your
				distribution. To configure the repository: <ol id="ol_b12_1lb_bq">
					<li>Find the appropriate repository location for your distribution in the
						following table. CentOS and RHEL allow 32-bit packages to be installed on a
						64-bit system. This is usually not what you want, so ensure that you use the
						64-bit repository for your 64-bit system (unless you specifically want the
						32-bit SDK). <table>
							<tgroup cols="3">
								<thead>
									<row>
										<entry>Version</entry>
										<entry>Architecture</entry>
										<entry>Repository</entry>
									</row>
								</thead>
								<tbody>
									<row>
										<entry>6</entry>
										<entry>32-bit</entry>
										<entry><codeph>http://packages.couchbase.com/rpm/6.2/i686</codeph></entry>
									</row>
									<row>
										<entry>6</entry>
										<entry>64-bit</entry>
										<entry><codeph>http://packages.couchbase.com/rpm/6.2/x86_64</codeph></entry>
									</row>
									<row>
										<entry>7</entry>
										<entry>64-bit</entry>
										<entry><codeph>http://packages.couchbase.com/rpm/7/x86_64</codeph></entry>
									</row>
								</tbody>
							</tgroup>
						</table></li>
					<li>Create a <filepath>couchbase.repo</filepath> file in your
							<filepath>/etc/yum.repos.d</filepath> directory. It should look similar
						to the
						following:<codeblock>[couchbase]
enabled = 1
name = Couchbase package repository
baseurl = REPLACE THIS WITH THE ACTUAL REPOSITORY FOR YOUR PLATFORM
gpgcheck = 1
gpgkey = http://packages.couchbase.com/rpm/couchbase-rpm.key </codeblock></li>
				</ol><p><b>Configuring APT repositories (Debian, Ubuntu)</b>
				</p><p>This section assumes some knowledge of <xref
						href="https://wiki.debian.org/Apt" format="html" scope="external">Apt</xref>
					and Linux quick start  explains the steps it will perform on your distribution.
					To configure the repository:<i/></p><ol id="ol_alc_nmb_bq">
					<li>Download the Couchbase GPG key from
							<filepath>http://packages.couchbase.com/ubuntu/couchbase.key</filepath>.</li>
					<li>Add the key to the list of trusted package keys. Use the <codeph>apt-key
							add</codeph> command. For example, <codeph>apt-key add
							couchbase.key</codeph>.</li>
					<li>Create a <filepath>couchbase.list</filepath> file in
							<filepath>/etc/apt/sources.list.d</filepath>. The file should contain
						the repository for your distribution. Repositories are available for the
						following distributions: <table id="table_trf_ymb_bq">
							<tgroup cols="2">
								<thead>
									<row>
										<entry>Distribution</entry>
										<entry>Repository Entry</entry>
									</row>
								</thead>
								<tbody>
									<row>
										<entry>Precise (Ubuntu 12.04)</entry>
										<entry><codeph>deb http://packages.couchbase.com/ubuntu
												precise precise/main</codeph></entry>
									</row>
									<row>
										<entry>Trusty (Ubuntu 14.04)</entry>
										<entry><codeph>deb http://packages.couchbase.com/ubuntu
												trusty trusty/main</codeph></entry>
									</row>
									<row>
										<entry>Debian Wheezy (Stable)</entry>
										<entry><codeph>deb http://packages.couchbase.com/ubuntu
												wheezy wheezy/main</codeph></entry>
									</row>
								</tbody>
							</tgroup>
						</table></li>
				</ol></section>
		
			
			
			<section>
		<title>Installing on Mac OS X with Homebrew</title>
		
			<p>The C SDK can be installed on Mac OS X via <xref href="http://brew.sh/" format="html"
					scope="external"
				>Homebrew</xref>:</p>
				<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ brew update # Needed if upgrading to a newer version
$ brew install libcouchbase </codeblock>
			<p>If you are using an extension for a 32-bit interpreter (check by executing <codeph>lipo -info
					/path/to/interp</codeph>), you should install the C SDK with the following command:
				<codeblock>$ brew install libcouchbase --universal</codeblock></p>
			</section>
			
	<section>
		<title>Installing binary packages without a repository</title>
	
			<p>You can install standalone packages by downloading a TAR archive containing the necessary
				binary packages for your platform: </p>
	
			
			
		<p><b>Installing RPM packages manually</b></p>
				<screen>$ tar xf libcouchbase-2.4.0_centos62_x86_64.tar
$ cd libcouchbase-2.4.0_centos62_x86_64/
$ sudo rpm -ivh libcouchbase-devel-2.4.0-1.el6.x86_64.rpm libcouchbase2-core-2.4.0-1.el6.x86_64.rpm \
libcouchbase2-bin-2.4.0-1.el6.x86_64.rpm libcouchbase2-libevent-2.4.0-1.el6.x86_64.rpm
Preparing...                ########################################### [100%]
   1:libcouchbase2-core     ########################################### [ 25%]
   2:libcouchbase-devel     ########################################### [ 50%]
   3:libcouchbase2-bin      ########################################### [ 75%]
   4:libcouchbase2-libevent ########################################### [100%]</screen>
		
		
		
		<p><b>Installing Debian packages manually</b></p>
				
				<screen>$ tar xf libcouchbase-2.2.0_ubuntu1204_amd64.tar
$ cd libcouchbase-2.2.0_ubuntu1204_amd64
$ sudo dpkg -i libcouchbase2-core_2.2.0-2453_amd64.deb libcouchbase2-libevent_2.2.0-2453_amd64.deb \
libcouchbase-dev_2.2.0-2453_amd64.deb libcouchbase2-bin_2.2.0-2453_amd64.deb
Selecting previously unselected package libcouchbase2-core.
(Reading database ... 28297 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking libcouchbase2-core (from libcouchbase2-core_2.2.0-2453_amd64.deb) ...
Selecting previously unselected package libcouchbase2-libevent.
Unpacking libcouchbase2-libevent (from libcouchbase2-libevent_2.2.0-2453_amd64.deb) ...
Selecting previously unselected package libcouchbase-dev.
Unpacking libcouchbase-dev (from libcouchbase-dev_2.2.0-2453_amd64.deb) ...
Selecting previously unselected package libcouchbase2-bin.
Unpacking libcouchbase2-bin (from libcouchbase2-bin_2.2.0-2453_amd64.deb) ...
Setting up libcouchbase2-core (2.2.0-2453) ...
Processing triggers for man-db ...
Setting up libcouchbase2-bin (2.2.0-2453) ...
Setting up libcouchbase2-libevent (2.2.0-2453) ...
Setting up libcouchbase-dev (2.2.0-2453) ...
Processing triggers for libc-bin ...
ldconfig deferred processing now taking place</screen>


		<p><b>Installing from source</b></p>
		<p>Download the source archives: <xref href="sdk-down-lists.dita#concept_qbw_1nz_3t"/> .You should
					first extract the library, configure it, and then install it. For
					example:<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ tar xf libcouchbase-2.4.0.tar.gz
				$ cd libcouchbase-2.4.0
				$ ./configure
				$ sudo make install</codeblock></p>
			</section>
	
	
<section>
		<title>Windows binary packages</title>
		
			<p>Windows binary packages can be found in <xref href="sdk-down-lists.dita#concept_qbw_1nz_3t"/>.
					Included are the header files, release and debug variants of the DLLs and import
					libraries, and release and debug variants of the command line tools.</p>
			<p>Ensure you select the proper package pertaining to the compiler and architecture your
				application is using.</p>
</section>

		
		

		</body>
	
</topic>
		
		
