<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_vqw_djq_44">
	<title>Handling errors</title>
	<shortdesc>Most operations return an <codeph>lcb_error_t</codeph> status code.</shortdesc>
<conbody>
		<p> A successful operation
			is defined by the return code of <codeph>LCB_SUCCESS</codeph>, while any other code
			indicates an error condition. You can find a full list of error codes in the
				<filepath>&lt;libcouchbase/error.h></filepath> header.</p>
		<note>New applications are advised to enable extended error codes by using the
				<codeph>LCB_CNTL_DETAILED_ERRCODES</codeph> setting (see <xref
				href="tuning.dita#concept_wtt_2jq_44" />). 
			Extended error codes are not enabled by default to avoid sending older applications error codes that they cannot handle.
			</note>
		<p>To handle the errors properly, you must understand what the errors mean and whether they
			indicate a data error, that the operation can be retried, or a fatal
			error.</p>
		<p><term>Data errors</term> are errors received from the cluster as a result of a requested
			operation on a given item. For example, if an <apiname>lcb_get()</apiname> is performed on
			a key that does not exist, the callback will receive an <codeph>LCB_KEY_ENOENT</codeph>
			error. Other examples of conditions that can result in data errors include: <ul
				id="ul_r1n_3qj_p4">
				<li>Adding a key that already exists (An <codeph>LCB_KEY_EEXISTS</codeph>) will be
					thrown</li>
				<li>Replacing a key that does not already exist (<codeph>LCB_KEY_ENOENT</codeph>)</li>
				<li>Appending, prepending, or incrementing an item that does not already exist
						(<codeph>LCB_KEY_ENOENT</codeph>, <codeph>LCB_NOT_STORED</codeph>)</li>
				<li>Modifying an item while specifying a CAS, where the CAS on the server has already
					been modified (<codeph>LCB_KEY_EEXISTS</codeph>).</li>
			</ul></p>
		<p>Environmental errors related to load or network issues might be received in exceptional
			conditions. Although you should not receive these types of errors in normal,
			well-provisioned deployments, your application must be prepared to handle them and take
			proper action. Environmental errors are divided into the following subgroups:<ul
				id="ul_tsw_rrj_p4">
				<li><b>Transient</b>. This error type indicates an environment and/or resource
					limitation either on the server or on the network link between the client and the
					server. Examples of transient errors include timeout errors or temporary failures
					such as <codeph>LCB_ETIMEDOUT</codeph> (took too long to get a reply) and
						<codeph>LCB_ETMPFAIL</codeph> (server was too busy). Transient errors are
					typically best handled on the application side by backing off and retrying the
					operation, with the intent of reducing stress on the exhausted resource. Some
					examples of transient error causes: <ul id="ul_ut2_vrj_p4">
						<li>Insufficient cache memory on the server</li>
						<li>Overutilization of the network link between the client and server or between
							several servers</li>
						<li>Router or switch failure</li>
						<li>Failover of a node</li>
						<li>Overutilization of application-side CPU.</li>
					</ul></li>
				<li><b>Fatal</b>. This error type indicates that the client has potentially entered into
					an irrecoverable failed state, either because of invalid user input (or client
					configuration), or because an administrator has modified settings on the cluster (for
					example, a bucket has been removed). Examples of fatal errors include
						<codeph>LCB_AUTH_ERROR</codeph> (authentication failed) and
						<codeph>LCB_BUCKET_ENOENT</codeph> (bucket does not exist).<p>Fatal errors
						typically require inspection of the client configuration and a restart of the
						client application or a reversal of the change performed at the cluster. Some
						examples of fatal error causes:</p><ul id="ul_yhb_hsj_p4">
						<li>Bucket does not exist.</li>
						<li>Bucket password is wrong.</li>
						<li>None of the nodes in the cluster are reachable.</li>
					</ul></li>
			</ul></p>
		<p>The lcb_errflags_t enumeration defines a set of flags that are associated with each error
			code. These flags define the type of error. Some examples of error types: <ul
				id="ul_jmb_gtj_p4">
				<li><codeph>LCB_ERRTYPE_INPUT</codeph>, which is set when a malformed parameter is
					passed to the library</li>
				<li><codeph>LCB_ERRTYPE_DATAOP</codeph>, which is set when the server is unable to
					satisfy data constraints such as a missing key or a CAS mismatch.</li>
			</ul></p>
		<p>The <codeph>LCB_EIF_${TYPE}</codeph> macros, where <codeph>${TYPE}</codeph> represents one
			of the <codeph>lcb_errflags_t</codeph> flags, can be used to check whether an error is of a
			specific type. The following example shows how to check the return codes:
			<codeblock outputclass="language-c">static void get_callback(lcb_t instance,
  const void *cookie, lcb_error_t err, const lcb_get_resp_t *resp)
{
  if (err == LCB_SUCCESS) {
    printf("Successfuly retrieved key!\n");
  } else if (LCB_EIFDATA(err)) {
    switch (err) {
    case LCB_KEY_ENOENT:
      printf("Key not found!\n");
      break;
    default:
      printf("Received other unhandled data error\n");
      break;
    }
  } else if (LCB_EIFTMP(err)) {
    printf("Transient error received. May retry\n");
  }
}</codeblock></p>
		<section>
			<title>When to check for errors, and what they mean</title>
			<p>Success and failure depend on the context. A successful return code for one of the data
				operation APIs (for example, <apiname>lcb_store()</apiname>) does not mean the operation
				itself succeeded and the key was successfully stored. Rather, it means the key was
				successfully placed inside the library’s internal queue. The actual error code is
				delivered as the <codeph>error</codeph> parameter in the operation callback itself (that
				is, the callback installed with <apiname>lcb_set_storage_callback()</apiname>).</p>
			<p>Errors received as a return value from a scheduling function (i.e. <codeph>lcb_get()</codeph>)
				will fail only if there is an issue with the cluster (that is, a node was failed over
				and there is no replica at that position), or if invalid input was specified to the
				library. Errors received in the callback will either be data responses from the server
				or environmental errors (such as an error that took place while reading from the
				network).</p>
			<p>If a scheduling API returns anything but <codeph>LCB_SUCCESS</codeph>, the callback for
				that specific request will <i>not</i> be delivered. Conversely, it is guaranteed that
				the callback will always be delivered if the return code for the scheduling function is
					<codeph>LCB_SUCCESS</codeph>.</p>
		</section>
		<section>
			<title>Program crashes and pitfalls</title>
			<p>If your application abnormally terminates while invoking a function with the library, you may
				have either encountered a bug or passed the library an invalid pointer. Keep in mind the
				following points:<ul id="ul_dyk_2vj_p4">
					<li>The library is <i>not</i> thread safe. While you may use multiple <i>lcb_t</i>
						handles in different threads, you must never access the same handle from multiple
						threads without using external synchronization functions (such as mutexes).</li>
					<li>The response structures within the callback are valid <i>only</i> in the scope of
						the callback function itself. This means you must copy the structure (and any
						contained keys and values) into another location in memory if you wish to use it
						outside the callback.</li>
					<li>Callbacks will <i>not</i> be invoked if the scheduling function returns a failure
						status. This means that the following code will result in accessing uninitialized
						memory:<codeblock outputclass="language-c">struct myresult {
  char *value;
  lcb_error_t err;
}
static void get_callback(lcb_t instance, const void *cookie,
    lcb_error_t err, const lcb_get_resp_t *resp)
{
  struct myresult *mr = (struct myresult *)cookie;
  mr->err = err;
  if (mr->err == LCB_SUCCESS) {
    mr->value = malloc(resp->v.v0.nkey + 1);
    memcpy(mr->value, resp->v.v0.key, resp->v.v0.nkey);
    mr->value[resp->v.v0.nkey] = '\0';
  } else {
    mr->value = NULL;
  }
}

// Some lines later
struct myresult mr;
lcb_get(instance, &amp;mr, 1, &amp;cmdlist);
lcb_wait(instance);
if (mr.value) {
  // If lcb_get() returned an error, this will be uninitialized access!
  // ...
}</codeblock></li>
				</ul></p>
			<p>A crash can also be a result of a bug in the library. Sometimes the library will call abort
				when it detects an inconsistent state. If you think you have found a bug in the library
				you should file a bug in our <xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/CCBC"
					format="html" scope="external">issue tracker</xref>. When filing a bug, please be
				sure to include the library version and any relevant code samples.</p>
		</section>
		<section>
			<title>Diagnosing Issues</title>
			<p>Diagnosing issues can typically be done by enabling logging (see <xref
					href="logging.dita#concept_ff3_2jq_44" />).</p>
		</section>
	</conbody>
</concept>
