<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "generalTask.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ppz_lhq_44">
 <title>Managing server connections </title>
 <shortdesc>This section will guide you through the process and steps of configuring the client to
    talk to a variety of cluster setups and options. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
    <section id="concept_khq_vhq_44">
      <title>Connection parameters</title>
      <p>The client object must first be instantiated using an
				<apiname>lcb_create_st</apiname>structure. This contains fields needed to initialize the
				client with the proper parameters in order to connect to a bucket. The structure
				contains these notable fields: <codeph>connstr</codeph> and <codeph>passwd</codeph>.</p>
      <p> The <codeph>connstr</codeph> field accepts a specifier known as a <term>connection
					string</term> that indicates which bucket to connect to and which hosts comprise the
				cluster. The <codeph>passwd</codeph><i /> field should contain your bucket password, if
				your bucket has been configured with authentication.</p>
      <p>In the simplest form, initialize your structure like so:
				<codeblock outputclass="language-c">struct lcb_create_st cropts;
memset(&amp;cropts, 0, sizeof cropts);
cropts.version = 3;
cropts.v.v3.connstr = "couchbase://localhost/mybucket";
cropts.v.v3.passwd = "topsecret";</codeblock>In
				the example, <codeph>localhost</codeph> is a host of your cluster,
					<codeph>mybucket</codeph> is the bucket you want to connect to, and
					<codeph>passwd</codeph> is the bucket password.</p>
      <p>For increased redundancy you can specify <i>multiple</i> hosts, separated by a semicolon,
				like <codeph>"couchbase://host1.net;host2.net/mybucket"</codeph>. Specifying multiple
				hosts allows the library to connect to the cluster as long as any of the hosts specified
				are up.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Initializing the client handle</title>
      <p>After the <apiname>lcb_create_st</apiname> structure has been initialized, you can create
				your instance object - or the opaque handle that represents the connection to your
				bucket:<codeblock outputclass="language-c">lcb_t instance = NULL;
lcb_error_t err = lcb_create(&amp;instance, &amp;cropts);
if (err != LCB_SUCCESS) {
    fprintf(stderr, “Could not create library handle: %s\n”, lcb_strerror(NULL, err));
}</codeblock></p>
      <p>The <apiname>lcb_create()</apiname> function initializes and allocates a new handle with
        the settings provided inside the <apiname>lcb_create_st</apiname> object.</p>
      <p>After the handle has been initialized, a connection to the cluster must be scheduled.
				Invoke the <apiname>lcb_connect()</apiname> call to initiate the connection sequence.
				After the connection is scheduled, you need to wait for the connection to actually
				complete by using the <apiname>lcb_wait()</apiname> function, which waits for pending
				I/O to complete on behalf of the library. Finally, when lcb_wait() returns, use the
					<apiname>lcb_get_bootstrap_status()</apiname> function to determine if the connection
				completed successfully or if an error occurred:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-c">lcb_error_t err;
lcb_connect(instance);
lcb_wait(instance);
err = lcb_get_bootstrap_status(instance);
if (err != LCB_SUCCESS) {
  fprintf(stderr, “Couldn’t bootstrap: %s\n”, lcb_strerror(instance, err));
}</codeblock>
    </section>
   <section>
     <title>Connecting with SSL</title>
     <p>Couchbase Sever features the ability to have clients communicate securely via SSL.</p>
     <p>To use SSL, you need Couchbase Server Enterprise 3.0 or later</p>
     <ol>
       <li>Obtain the SSL certificate in use by the Cluster (...). </li>
				<li>Make the certificate available to the file system of the client host.</li>
       <li>Employ the <codeph>couchbases://</codeph> scheme for the <codeph>connstr</codeph>
					field.</li>
       <li>Specify the local path to the certificate as the value for the <codeph>certpath</codeph>
					field.</li>
     </ol>
     <p>To connect to the <codeph>mybucket</codeph> bucket on SSL-enabled Cluster at the node
				10.3.4.33, with the certificate saved as <codeph>/var/cbcert.pem</codeph>:
				<codeblock outputclass="language-c">cropts.v.v3.connstr = "couchbases://10.3.4.33/mybucket?certpath=/var/cbcert.pem";</codeblock>
			</p>
   </section>
   <section>
     <title>Closing the connection</title>     
   <p>When you no longer need the connection, destroy the library handle by using
					<apiname>lcb_destroy()</apiname>.
				<codeblock outputclass="language-c">lcb_destroy(instance);</codeblock> After
					<apiname>lcb_destroy()</apiname> is called on an instance, the instance may no longer
				be passed to any other function.</p>
     </section>
  </conbody>
  </concept>