<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_tvx_nhq_44">
    <title>Working with view queries</title>
    <shortdesc>You can use MapReduce views to create queryable secondary indexes in Couchbase
        Server. </shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>The primary index for documents is the key you use when performing the standard CRUD
			methods. In the C client library, query results are delivered on a per-row basis to a given
			callback, which is specified at query time.</p>
        <p>The following example queries a <codeph>by_name</codeph> view in a beer design document.
            This view checks whether a document is a beer and has a name. If it does, it emits the
            beer's name into the index. This view allows beers to be queried for by name. For
            example, it's now possible to ask the question "What beers start with A?"</p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">function (doc, meta) {
  if (doc.type &amp;&amp; doc.type == "beer" &amp;&amp; doc.name) {
     emit(doc.name, null);
  }
}</codeblock>
        <p>Querying a view is performed through the <apiname>lcb_view_query()</apiname> function. To
			use this function, include the <filepath>&lt;libcouchbase/views.h></filepath> file.</p>
        <p>First, a handler function is defined to deal with each row (and at the end, any metadata)
            of the query:</p>
        <p><codeblock outputclass="language-c" spectitle="Per-Row callback">static void viewCallback(lcb_t instance, int ign, const lcb_RESPVIEWQUERY *rv)
{
    if (rv->rflags &amp; LCB_RESP_F_FINAL) {
        printf("*** META FROM VIEWS ***\n");
        fprintf(stderr, "%.*s\n", (int)rv->nvalue, rv->value);
        return;
    }

    printf("Got row callback from LCB: RC=0x%X, DOCID=%.*s. KEY=%.*s\n",
        rv->rc,
        (int)rv->ndocid, rv->docid,
        (int)rv->nkey, rv->key);

    if (rv->docresp) {
        printf("   Document for response. RC=0x%X. CAS=0x%lx\n",
            rv->docresp->rc, rv->docresp->cas);
    }
}
</codeblock>This
			callback is invoked for each row. The end of the query (when no more rows to return) is
			signaled by having the <codeph>LCB_RESP_F_FINAL</codeph> bit set in the response's
				<codeph>rflags</codeph> field.</p>
        <p>The response structure contains a <codeph>key</codeph> and <codeph>nkey</codeph>,
				<codeph>value</codeph> and <codeph>nvalue</codeph>, and <codeph>docid</codeph> and
				<codeph>ndodic</codeph> fields that contain the buffer and lengths for the emitted keys
			and values of the view result and the corresponding document ID. The final row (the one
			with the <codeph>LCB_RESP_F_FINAL</codeph> flag set) contains the "shell" of the response
			(that is, any errors, debug information, and the <codeph>total_rows</codeph> field) in the
				<codeph>value</codeph> field.</p>
        <p>All the fields (except <codeph>docid</codeph>) are JSON encoded and should be decoded by
            a JSON decoder before use.</p>
        <p>To actually invoke the query, populate the request
			structure:<codeblock outputclass="language-c">lcb_CMDVIEWQUERY vq = { 0 };
lcb_view_query_initcmd(&amp;vq, "beer", "by_name", NULL, viewCallback
lcb_error_t rc = lcb_view_query(instance, NULL, &amp;vq);
if (rc != LCB_SUCCESS) {
    // Handle error
}
lcb_wait(instance);</codeblock>The
				<apiname>lcb_view_query_initcmd()</apiname> convenience function allows you to populate
			the command structure with common parameters. Unlike most library operations, the callback
			here is specific to the operation rather than global.</p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-c" spectitle="Issuing the query">#include &lt;libcouchbase/views.h>

static void rowCallback(lcb_t instance, int ign, const lcb_RESPVIEQUERY *resp)
{
    
var couchbase = require('couchbase');
var ViewQuery = couchbase.ViewQuery;

var query = ViewQuery.from('beer', 'by_name');</codeblock>
    </conbody>
</concept>
