<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1154">
  <title>XDCR stream management</title>
  <shortdesc>New XDCR stream creation must occur after creating a bucket or after deleting an XDCR
    stream.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>Depending on the CPU load, a certain period of time should pass before creating new XDCR
      streams and under the following circumstances:</p>
    
    <ul>
      <li>After creating a bucket</li>
      <li>After deleting an old XDCR stream</li>
    </ul>
    
    <p>If a new XDCR stream is created immediately after a bucket has been created, a
        <codeph>db_not_found</codeph> error may occur. When you create a bucket, some time passes
      before the buckets are available. If XDCR tries to replicate to or from the vBucket too soon,
      a <codeph>db_not_found</codeph> error occurs. The same situation applies when other clients
      are “talking” to a bucket.</p>
    <p>If a new XDCR stream is created immediately after an old XDCR stream is deleted, an Erlang
        <systemoutput>eaddrinuse</systemoutput> error occurs  related to the Erlang implementation
      of the TCP/IP protocol. </p>
    <p>After an Erlang process releases a socket, the socket stays in <codeph>TIME_WAIT</codeph> for
      a while before a new Erlang process can reuse it. If the new XDCR stream is created too
      quickly, vBucket replicators may encounter the <systemoutput>eaddrinuse</systemoutput> error,
      and XDCR may not be able to start fully.</p>
    
      <note type="note">The <codeph>TIME_WAIT</codeph> interval may be tunable from the operating
      system: if so, try lowering the interval time. </note>
  </body>
</topic>
