<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_amn_kws_zs">
  <title>Tune XDCR Performance</title>
  <body>
    <p>Full, Cluster, and Replication Administrators can adjust the advanced settings to tune the
      XDCR performance.</p>
      
    <p>By default, XDCR gets metadata for documents over 256 bytes twice before it performs
      conflict resolution for them at a destination cluster. If the document fails conflict
      resolution, it is discarded at the destination cluster. If a document is smaller than the
      number of bytes provided with this parameter (256 bytes), XDCR immediately puts it into the
      replication queue without getting metadata on the source cluster.</p>
      
      <p>If the document is deleted on the source cluster, XDCR will no longer fetch metadata for this document before it sends the update to the 
      destination cluster. Once the document reaches the destination cluster, XDCR will fetch the metadata and perform conflict resolution between documents. 
      If the document ‘loses’ conflict resolution, Couchbase Server discards it on the destination cluster and keeps the version on the destination. 
      This new feature improves replication latency, particularly when you replicate small documents.</p>
      
      <p>There are tradeoffs when you change this setting. </p>
    <ul>
      <li>If you put the setting low compared to the document size, XDCR will frequently check
        metadata and latency will be increased during replication. It also means that XDCR will get
        metadata before it puts the document into the replication queue and will get it again for
        the destination to perform conflict resolution. The advantage is that the network bandwidth
        is not misused, since XDCR will send fewer documents. </li>
      <li>If you configure this setting very high relative to the document size, XDCR fetches less metadata and latency will 
        improve during replication. High setting also means that you will increase the rate at which XDCR puts items immediately into the replication queue; 
        this can potentially overwhelm your network, especially if you set a high number of parallel replicators. The number of documents sent by XDCR, 
        therefore, might be increased, and network bandwidth misused.</li>
    </ul>
    
    <p>The following advanced settings are related to XDCR performance:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><codeph>optimisticReplicationThreshold</codeph></li>
      <li><codeph>sourceNozzlePerNode</codeph>
        </li>
        <li><codeph>targetNozzlePerNode</codeph></li>
    </ul>
    <note type="note">XDCR does not fetch metadata for the deleted documents.</note>
    <section><title>Changing the Document Threshold</title>
      <p>Change the document threshold with the REST URI
        <codeblock>/settings/replications optimisticReplicationThreshold </codeblock>and the
        parameter for XDCR advanced settings. Alternatively, change the XDCR <codeph>Optimistic
          Replication Threshold </codeph>setting for the XDCR replication. </p>

    </section>
    <section><title>Replication Statistics</title>
      <p>The provided statistics is <codeph>docs_ fail_ cr_source,</codeph> which is the number of
        big documents that have failed conflict resolution on the source and have not been
        replicated to the target cluster. </p>
      
      
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="../security/concepts-rba.dita#concept_ntl_jph_hr"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
