<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1158"><title>XDCR use cases</title>
  <shortdesc>XDCR is used mainly in these cases: for disaster recovery, to bring data closer to
    users, and to replicate data for development and test needs.</shortdesc>
  
  
  
  <body>
   <dl>
     <dlentry>
       <dt>Disaster recovery</dt>
       <dd>Disaster can strike your datacenter at any time – often
         with little or no warning. With active-active cross datacenter replication in
         Couchbase Server, applications can read and write to any geo location ensuring
         availability of data 24x365 even if an entire datacenter goes down.</dd>
     </dlentry>
   </dl> 
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Bringing data closer to users</dt>
        <dd>Interactive web applications demand low
          latency response times to deliver an impressive application experience. The best
          way to reduce latency is to bring relevant data closer to the user. For example,
          in online advertising, sub-millisecond latency is needed to make optimized
          decisions about real-time ad placements. XDCR can be used to bring
          post-processed user profile data closer to the user for low latency data access.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Data replication for development and test needs</dt>
        <dd>Developers and testers
          often need to simulate production-like environments for troubleshooting or to
          produce a more reliable test. By using XDCR, you can
          create test clusters that host subset of your production data so that you can
          test code changes without interrupting production processing or risking a data
          loss.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
  </body></topic>
