<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_xfr_byq_ft">
	<title>Durability requirements</title>
	<shortdesc>Specify durability requirements to regulate Couchbase Server's behavior.</shortdesc>
<conbody>
		<p>If you do not specify any durability requirements, the server will respond with a success
			message if the data has been acknowledged and processed in the managed cache. Since
			persistence and replication are asynchronous tasks and happen eventually, there is a
			time gap where a node failure can lead to data loss. This time gap is exactly between
			the points when data has neither been replicated to another node nor persisted to
			disk.</p>
		<p>For most use cases, this time gap is totally acceptable since it is usually very small.  For
			the important mutation operations, we need stronger guarantees. If you change the server
			to acknowledge only once the data has been either replicated or persisted makes the
			whole system slower by default. Therefore, Couchbase Server has another way to handle
			such  situations:</p>
		<ol>
			<li>The SDK will perform the normal mutation without durability requirements.</li>
			<li>If the server returns with a successful response, the client will start polling.</li>
			<li>The client polls all the affected nodes for this mutation until either the desired state is
				reached, or it can’t be reached for a reason.</li>
			<li>In the successful case, the operation will also complete towards the application layer, and
				in the failure case the client will error out the operation, leaving the user to
				decide what's next.</li>
		</ol>
		<p>The following code will make sure that the document has been persisted on the active node
			for this document ID and also replicated to one of the configured replicas:</p>
		<codeblock outputclass="language-java">JsonDocument docPersistedAndReplicated = bucket.upsert(docToStore, PersistTo.MASTER, ReplicateTo.ONE);
</codeblock>
		<p>In this example, the client will poll two nodes until completion: the active node for this
			document and also the configured replica. If any of the constraints cannot be fulfilled,
			an exception will be raised. </p>
		<p>If you wonder why in the failure case we put the burden on you to figure out what next: the SDK
			has no idea of your SLAs or what you intend to do to when the operation fails. Sometimes
			it might be fine to proceed and log the error, in other cases you may want sophisticated
			retry mechanisms where the SDK can guide you with functionality, but not the actual
			execution semantics.</p>

		<section>
			<title>PersistTo and ReplicateTo</title>
			<p>The way to specify your intent to define durability requirements is by passing in
					<codeph>PersistTo</codeph> or <codeph>ReplicateTo</codeph> enums as parameters
				on mutation operations.</p>
			<p>The following states can be set, and all of the combinations between the two are supported.
				Note that the <codeph>NONE</codeph> states are the defaults and, in this case, the
				durability requirement won’t be used. The <codeph>NONE</codeph> state is useful
				nonetheless if you define it based on a system property and need a fallback to the
				default.</p>
			<ul>
				<li><codeph>PersistTo:</codeph> NONE, MASTER, ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR</li>
				<li><codeph>ReplicateTo:</codeph> NONE, ONE, TWO, THREE</li>
			</ul>
			<p>Since you can have a maximum of three replicas, the maximum number of replicas you can
				check is three as well. For persisting the maximum number is four, because the active
				node can be checked in addition to the three replicas.</p>
			<p>All options (other than NONE and MASTER) will return as soon as the requirement is fulfilled.
				So for example if you have two replicas configured on the bucket, and you specify
					<codeph>ReplicateTo.ONE</codeph>, as soon as either one of the two reports
				success for the document ID the condition is assumed to be fulfilled.</p>
			<p>If you provide both <codeph>PersistTo</codeph> and <codeph>ReplicateTo</codeph> both
				conditions are linked together with a logical "and", meaning that both conditions
				must be satisfied so that the SDK can report success.</p>
			<p>Keep in mind that if the durability requirement failed, it could very well be that the
				original mutation operation succeeded. See the common failure scenarios for more
				context. This is due to the effect that the actual mutation and the subsequent
				polling are individual operations that can also fail individually. As an example, if
				you specify <codeph>ReplicateTo.ONE</codeph> and you have no replica configured, the
				original mutation will complete without issues, but the durability requirement will
				fail.</p>

		</section>
		
		<section>
			<title>API support</title>
			<p>The following mutation operations provide support for durability requirements:</p>
			<ul>
				<li>insert</li>
				<li>upsert</li>
				<li>replace</li>
				<li>remove</li>
			</ul>
			<p>Here is an example that inserts a document and waits until it is persisted on the active
				node:</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-java">bucket.insert(document, PersistTo.MASTER);</codeblock>
			<p>The following example replaces a document and waits until it is replicated to at least
				one replica:</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-java">bucket.replace(document, ReplicateTo.ONE);</codeblock>
			<p>While not obvious in the first place, the same holds true for removal operations. If you
				want to make sure that the deletion of the document survives node failures under any
				conditions, you can use the same semantics. The following example makes sure that the
				removal is persisted on at least two nodes in the cluster (like the master and one
				replica):</p>
			<codeblock>bucket.remove("docid", PersistTo.TWO);</codeblock>
			<p>In this last example also specifying <codeph>ReplicateTo.ONE</codeph> would be
				redundant, since persisting on a replica means it first needs to be replicated to
				it.</p>
		</section>
		
		<section>
			<title>
				<b>Exceptions and errors</b>
			</title>
			<p>The asynchronous API will send error notifications to your subscriber in the failure
				case. Since the synchronous API just wraps the asynchronous one, those errors will be
				converted into actual exceptions.</p>
			<p>Every exception that happens during the durability requirement polling will be wrapped
				into a <codeph>com.couchbase.client.java.error.DurabilityException</codeph>. The
				original exception is carried as part of the <codeph>DurabilityException</codeph>, so
				you can always call <codeph>Throwable#getCause()</codeph> on it.</p>
			<p>After you do that, you will come across the following errors:</p>
			<ul>
				<li><codeph>DocumentConcurrentlyModifiedException</codeph>: If the observed document has
					been concurrently modified by another caller.</li>
				<li><codeph>ReplicaNotConfiguredException</codeph>: There are not enough replicas
					configured to fulfill the durability requirement in the first place.</li>
				<li><codeph>ReplicaNotAvailableException</codeph>: There are currently not enough
					replicas in the cluster to fulfill the durability requirement right now.</li>
				<li><codeph>DocumentMutationLostException</codeph>: The mutation has been lost during a
					hard failover. Only applies to enhanced durability.</li>
			</ul>
			<p>These errors can happen for a subset of the documents, depending on which node has been failed
				over, and no replica is available at this point. Other errors will affect all
				documents, for example if no replica is configured on the bucket at all.</p>
			<p>Keep in mind that because the polling for durability happens after the original
				mutation, every failure on that one will propagate immediately and never trigger the
				polling in the first place. This means that if you specify durability requirements, you
				need to handle those errors in addition to the errors on the original mutation.</p>
		</section>

		<section><title>Failure modes and their impact</title><p>An advanced feature of the SDK are
				different failure modes, but in the context of durability requirements they become
				more important. By default, the SDK uses
				the<codeph>BestEffortRetryStrategy</codeph>, but you can plug in a different one,
				such as the <codeph>FailFastRetryStrategy</codeph>) or write your mode. If you want
				to change it, you can do it in the environment like
				this:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java">CouchbaseEnvironment env = DefaultCouchbaseEnvironment
    .builder()
    .retryStrategy(FailFastRetryStrategy.INSTANCE)
    .build();</codeblock><p>Keep
				in mind that since this is a global setting, all operations will be affected by it.
				Now, what does it change in the context of durability requirements?</p>
			<p>If the SDK
			detects an issue during the polling activity, it will either continue to retry (best
			effort) or bail out immediately (fail fast). If a node goes down and does not come back
			up quickly enough using the best effort strategy, you’ll hit the specified client side
			timeout. With the fail fast strategy, you’ll very quickly get a DurabilityException that
			contains the root cause, such as a <codeph>RequestCancelledException</codeph>.</p>
			<p>If you use
			the fail fast retry strategy, you are trading more complex retry code on your side for
			faster feedback cycles in the failure case. A common reason to enable fail fast strategy
			is if you use some more sophisticated libraries on top of the SDK, for example
				<xref href="https://github.com/Netflix/Hystrix" format="html" scope="external"
					>Hystrix</xref></p>
		</section>
		<section>
			<title>
				Common failure scenarios
			</title>
			<p>Durability constraints in general span more than one node and the statistical
				chance for operation failures is higher. As a result, it is even more important for
				production stability to consider what can go wrong and in what ways to react.</p>
			<p>This section focuses on failures that come up because of invalid cluster setup.</p>
			<p>Lots of durability failures occur because the bucket doesn’t have enough replicas configured,
				or the number of nodes is not sufficient enough. For example, there are two replicas
				configured, but there are only two nodes in the cluster.</p>
			<p>If you have one replica configured on the bucket but you issue a mutation with
					<codeph>ReplicateTo.TWO</codeph>, you’ll get the following error:</p>
			<codeblock>Exception in thread "main" com.couchbase.client.java.error.DurabilityException: 
				Durability requirement failed: Not enough replicas configured on the bucket.
    at com.couchbase.client.java.CouchbaseAsyncBucket$18$1.call(CouchbaseAsyncBucket.java:549)
    at com.couchbase.client.java.CouchbaseAsyncBucket$18$1.call(CouchbaseAsyncBucket.java:545)
    at rx.internal.operators.OperatorOnErrorResumeNextViaFunction$1.onError(OperatorOnErrorResumeNextViaFunction.java:99)
    ...
Caused by: com.couchbase.client.core.ReplicaNotConfiguredException: Not enough replicas configured on the bucket.
    at com.couchbase.client.core.message.observe.ObserveViaCAS$6$2.call(ObserveViaCAS.java:144)
    at com.couchbase.client.core.message.observe.ObserveViaCAS$6$2.call(ObserveViaCAS.java:136)
    at rx.internal.operators.OperatorMap$1.onNext(OperatorMap.java:55)
</codeblock>
			<p>When you have a replica configured on the bucket, but not enough nodes in the cluster to
				replicate the data, the behavior varies on the retry strategy. By default (best
				effort), you’ll get a timeout because the client tries as long as possible (since
				the node can be added to the cluster at runtime):</p>
			<codeblock>Exception in thread "main" java.lang.RuntimeException: java.util.concurrent.TimeoutException
    at com.couchbase.client.java.util.Blocking.blockForSingle(Blocking.java:75)
    at com.couchbase.client.java.CouchbaseBucket.upsert(CouchbaseBucket.java:375)
    at com.couchbase.client.java.CouchbaseBucket.upsert(CouchbaseBucket.java:370)
    at test.MainTest.main(MainTest.java:30)
    at sun.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke0(Native Method)
    at sun.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(NativeMethodAccessorImpl.java:62)
    at sun.reflect.DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.java:43)
    at java.lang.reflect.Method.invoke(Method.java:497)
    at com.intellij.rt.execution.application.AppMain.main(AppMain.java:140)
Caused by: java.util.concurrent.TimeoutException
    ... 9 more
</codeblock>
			<p>If you choose fail fast, the error will be a <codeph>DurabilityException</codeph> which
				contains a <codeph>ReplicaNotAvailableException</codeph>:</p>
			<codeblock>Exception in thread "main" com.couchbase.client.java.error.DurabilityException: 
				Durability requirement failed: Replica number 1 not available for bucket default
    at com.couchbase.client.java.CouchbaseAsyncBucket$18$1.call(CouchbaseAsyncBucket.java:549)
    at com.couchbase.client.java.CouchbaseAsyncBucket$18$1.call(CouchbaseAsyncBucket.java:545)
    at rx.internal.operators.OperatorOnErrorResumeNextViaFunction$1.onError(OperatorOnErrorResumeNextViaFunction.java:99)
    at rx.internal.operators.OperatorMap$1.onError(OperatorMap.java:49)
    at rx.internal.operators.OperatorMap$1.onError(OperatorMap.java:49)
    at rx.internal.operators.OperatorTake$1.onError(OperatorTake.java:62)
    ...
Caused by: com.couchbase.client.core.ReplicaNotAvailableException: Replica number 1 not available for bucket default
    at com.couchbase.client.core.node.locate.KeyValueLocator.errorObservables(KeyValueLocator.java:202)
    at com.couchbase.client.core.node.locate.KeyValueLocator.locateForCouchbaseBucket(KeyValueLocator.java:127)
    at com.couchbase.client.core.node.locate.KeyValueLocator.locate(KeyValueLocator.java:79)
    ...
</codeblock>
			<p>Note the subtle difference between a <codeph>ReplicaNotConfiugredException</codeph> and a
					<codeph>ReplicaNotAvailableException</codeph>. This difference allows you to
				troubleshoot your cluster effectively if it is not set up properly or if it is
				suffering from a temporary failure condition.</p>
		</section>
		<section><title>Understanding and handling node failures</title>In addition to wrong cluster
			setup, the most common issue with durability requirements is when the cluster topology
			changes at runtime in a way that makes it not possible to fulfill the requirements
				anymore.<p>In practice, this is commonly referred to as a "node failure"and can
				happen because the <codeph>couchbase-server</codeph> service is restarted, the node
				is powered down or it is not reachable across the network. In all these cases,
				operations will start to fail. The failure is caused either because the active
				partitions do not respond, such as when the normal mutation fails or the replicas do
				not respond.</p>If you use the best effort strategy, you will run into your
			operation timeouts. In the fast fail case, you’ll see the
				<codeph>DurabilityExceptions</codeph> with the different underlying causes.<p>The
				difference between strategies is that only a subset of the operations will fail. If
				you have a 5-node cluster, only 1/5th of the mutations will fail, and the durability
				requirement will only fail if the down node involved is the only one that can help
				fulfilling. If you have two replicas configured, one node is down, and you use
					<codeph>ReplicateTo.ONE</codeph>, the other replica can still help make the
				requirement succeed.</p><p>Once you manually trigger the node failover or the
				auto-failover feature kicks in, the replicas are promoted to active, and the regular
				mutations on those partitions will start to work again. Here is the catch: since
				replicas had been promoted to active a few seconds ago, those replicas are now
				gone.</p>You will either have more than one replica configured when there is a spare
			one sitting in the cluster answering the durability requirement requests, or you’ll
			still get <codeph>ReplicaNotAvailableExceptions</codeph>.<p>Once you click on the
				Rebalance button,  the cluster manager makes sure that enough replicas are again in
				place and the data is shuffled around. At some point,
					the<codeph>ReplicaNotAvailableExceptions</codeph> are gone, and everything is
				good again.</p>What you have to do when you hit such an exception depends very much
			of the application type. If you need to make sure the data is stored and you don’t mind
			waiting for the cluster to settle again, you can retry the operation with an exponential
			backoff. If you are running an interactive application, most of the time you need to
			propagate the error up the stack or fail in a controlled way.<p>While you should plan
				for node failures, they don’t happen every hour. If you plan accordingly, you can
				minimize production impact. Multiple replicas strategies, which use the enterprise
				edition rack-awareness feature and the transparent, enhanced durability, provide a
				strong foundation to build always-on services even in the failure
			case.</p></section>
		<section>
			<title>Handling concurrent document modifications</title>
			<p>One error you might encounter in a concurrent application, even if all nodes are up and
				running, is the <codeph>DocumentConcurrentlyModifiedException</codeph>. To understand
				its roots, we need to peel back a layer and see how the polling mechanism works.</p>
			<p>A successful mutation returns the new CAS value as part of the response. Because the CAS
				value changes all the time when the document changes, we can use it to track the
				replication and persistence on the server side. So here is roughly what happens inside
				the SDK.</p>
			<ol>
				<li>The mutation is performed.</li>
				<li>If successful, the document ID is sent to each participating server through the
					internal <codeph>observe</codeph> command.</li>
				<li>All responses are collected.  They contain a status (persisted, replicated) and the CAS of
					the document on each server.</li>
				<li>On the master (active) node, if the CAS value is different from the one of our mutation, a
						<codeph>DocumentConcurrentlyModifiedException</codeph> is raised.</li>
			</ol>
			<p>Why?</p>
			<p>Imagine that the application A mutates document D and gets a CAS returned. Then it starts
				polling. Slightly afterward, application B also mutates document D and the CAS value
				changes again. The managed cache on the server performs deduplication, or the
				document can be replicated between poll cycles. Therefore, the CAS returned to
				application A might never be observed since it already changed to the CAS from
				application B.</p>
			<p>To detect this scenario, once the CAS on the master changes the SDK will raise a
					<codeph>DocumentConcurrentlyModifiedException</codeph>. How to react depends on
				the nature of the application. If from the semantics the latter operation subsumes
				the previous one, ignoring the error might be acceptable. If not, application A
				needs to fetch the document again, perform its changes or raise an error. In
				general, error handling is very similar to a
				<codeph>CASMismatchException</codeph>.</p>
			<p/>
		</section>
		<section>
			<title>Enhanced durability requirements with 4.0+</title>
			<p>The "next generation observe" removes the possibility of a
					<codeph>DocumentConcurrentlyModifiedException</codeph> happening.</p>
			<p>Couchbase Server 4.0 introduces a new feature that allows the SDK to be more accurate
				during the observe poll cycle, especially in the concurrent and failover cases.
				Instead of using the CAS to verify mutations, it uses sequence numbers and partition
				UUIDs.</p>
			<p>To enable them, all you need to do is enable mutation tokens on the environment:</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-java">CouchbaseEnvironment env = DefaultCouchbaseEnvironment
    .builder()
    .mutationTokensEnabled(true)
    .build();</codeblock>
			<p>The tradeoff here is an extra 16 byte overhead on every mutation. Every mutation returns
				the partition UUID and the sequence number which are then used for the enhanced
				durability requirements.</p>
			<p>As a result, the new <codeph>MutationToken</codeph> on the <codeph>Document</codeph> will be
				set and, as a result, the polling logic will automatically fall back to the enhanced
				requirements. Only enable enhanced durability on a minimum node version of 4.0,
				because the SDK will not check if each node supports the new observe option.</p>
			<p>Every mutation on the server side increases the sequence number. If application A and B update
				document D, such as the sequence one and two on the document, if we observe sequence
				two we can be sure that sequence one has also been replicated or persisted. That
				happens because the SDK uses sequence numbers instead of the CAS value.</p>
			<p>If a hard failover happens, a new partition UUID is created, and the server will return with a
				different response. From this response, the SDK can reliably infer if a mutation has
				been lost: the replica took over, but the last replicated sequence did not include
				the mutation we have been polling for. In this case, a
					<codeph>DocumentMutationLostException</codeph> will be raised. In general, it is
				recommended that the application re-performs the operation if this exception is
				encountered to avoid data loss.</p>
		</section>
		<section>
			<title>Performance considerations</title>
			<p>Couchbase Server is widely recognized for its excellent and predictable performance. One of
				the reasons for that is its managed cache, which allows it to return a response very
				quickly without taking replication or persistence latency into account.</p>
			<p>Again, it’s all tradeoffs. If you need to make sure data is replicated and/or persisted
				your network or disk performance will be the dominant factor. If you need high
				throughput and durability requirements, make sure (and measure) to have fast disks (SSD)
				and/or fast network.</p>
			<p>Because more than one node is in general involved and more round trips are needed, think
				about realistic timeouts you want to set and measure them in production. If you hit
				performance issues in production, make use of the new built-in metrics feature to gather
				operation latency percentile information and adjust timeouts based on those
				measurements. All timeouts you set on the blocking API need to take the original
				mutation and all subsequent polls into account until the durability requirement is
				met.</p>
			<p>One more thing you can tune in the environment is the <codeph>observeIntervalDelay</codeph>.
				It allows you to tune the delays between subsequent polls. By default, an
				exponential delay between 10 microseconds and 100 milliseconds is used. That way
				there will be a few very quick polls followed by some with a longer pause, the
				ceiling at 100ms (so it does not grow exponentially out of bounds). The following
				example fixes it at 50 microseconds:</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-java">CouchbaseEnvironment env = DefaultCouchbaseEnvironment
    .builder()
    .observeIntervalDelay(Delay.fixed(50, TimeUnit.MICROSECONDS))
    .build();</codeblock>
			<p>You want to tune the delay according to your network and disk performance
				characteristics. Too frequent polls just overload the network unnecessarily while too
				high poll delays will increase the latency for the overall operation (and subsequently
				reduce application throughput). If you are uncertain, work with Couchbase Support to
				find the optimal settings for your environment.</p>
		</section>


	</conbody>
</concept>
