<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concepteEnvConfig">
	<title>Configuring the environment</title>
	<shortdesc>The <codeph>CouchbaseEnvironment</codeph> class enables you to configure Java SDK
		options for bootstrapping, timeouts, reliability, and performance.</shortdesc>

	<conbody>
		<section>
			<title>The environment builder</title>

			<p>Because <codeph>CouchbaseEnvironment</codeph> is an immutable class, you need to configure it
				by using its embedded <codeph>Builder</codeph> class. It is designed to apply the
				builder arguments in a fluent fashion and then create the
					<codeph>CouchbaseEnvironment</codeph> at the very end:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[CouchbaseEnvironment env = DefaultCouchbaseEnvironment
    .builder()
    .sslEnabled(true)
    .computationPoolSize(5)
    .build();

Cluster cluster = CouchbaseCluster.create(env, "localhost");]]></codeblock>

			<p>Alternatively, most options are tunable through system properties as well. If a system property is set, it always takes precedence over the builder setting:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[System.setProperty("com.couchbase.kvEndpoints", "3");
CouchbaseEnvironment environment = DefaultCouchbaseEnvironment
	.builder()
    .kvEndpoints(2)
    .build();
CouchbaseCluster cluster = CouchbaseCluster.create(environment);]]></codeblock>

			<p>All system properties start with the <codeph>com.couchbase</codeph> prefix.</p>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Configuration Options</title>

			<p>The following tables cover all possible configuration options and explain their usage and
				default values. The tables categorize the options into groups for bootstrapping,
				timeout, reliability, performance, and advanced options.</p>
<<<<<<< HEAD

=======
>>>>>>> 5f28d521758ee0041b20af3c4a16a4725faedae3
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Bootstrapping options</title>
			
<dl>
	<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>Enabling Encryption</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>sslEnabled(boolean)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>false</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>sslEnabled</codeph></dd>
					<dd>If encrypted communication should be enabled. This feature is only available
						against a Couchbase Server 3.0 EE cluster or later. Please see the
						"Connection Management" section for more details on how to set it up
						properly.</dd>
				</dlentry>
</dl>
		
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>SSL Keystore Location</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>sslKeystoreFile(String)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default:<codeph>[empty]</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>sslKeystoreFile</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The location to the JVM keystore where the certificates are stored. This feature is only
						available against a Couchbase Server 3.0 EE cluster or later. See the
						"Connection Management" section for more details on how to set it up
						properly.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>	
			
			
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>SSL Keystore Password</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>sslKeystorePassword(String)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>[empty]</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>sslKeystorePassword</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The password of the JVM keystore where the certificates are stored. This feature is only
						available against a Couchbase Server 3.0 EE cluster or later. Please see the
						"Connection Management" section for more details on how to set it up
						properly.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>		
			
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>N1QL Enabled</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>queryEnabled(boolean)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>false</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>queryEnabled</codeph></dd>
					<dd>If experimental support for N1Ql should be enabled. Note that this setting is going to be
						deprecated as soon as the server comes with N1QL embedded, because it will
						be advertised and picked up by the SDK automatically. This setting should
						only be used to explicitly enable the N1QL service against a standalone
						N1QL. In addition, every Couchbase Server node in the cluster is expected to
						run a N1QL instance when this flag is enabled.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>		
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>N1QL Port</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>queryPort(int)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>8093</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>queryPort</codeph></dd>
					<dd> Defines the port for the experimental N1QL support when enabled. Every node in the cluster
						is expected to run a N1QL service against this port. This setting is going
						to be deprecated as soon as the server comes with N1QL embedded, because it
						will be advertised and picked up by the SDK automatically. This setting
						should only be used to explicitly enable the N1QL service against a
						stand-alone N1QL.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>		
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>Config Loading through HTTP</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>bootstrapHttpEnabled(boolean)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>true</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>bootstrapHttpEnabled</codeph></dd>
					<dd>If it should be possible for the client to bootstrap and grab configurations over the HTTP
						port 8091 (and also attach a streaming connection). If you are running
						Couchbase Server 2.2 or earlier, this setting must be set to true. Against
						newer clusters it can be disabled, but it doesn't hurt to keep it enabled as
						a last-resort fallback option. Also, if configuration loading through
						carrier publication is manually disabled, this option is used as a fallback.
						If both option are disabled, the client is not able to function properly. If
						you don't have a good reason to disable it (for example as instructed by
						Couchbase Support), keep it enabled.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>		
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>Config HTTP Non-Encrypted Port</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>bootstrapHttpDirectPort(int)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>8091</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>bootstrapHttpDirectPort</codeph></dd>
					<dd> The port which is used if encryption is not enabled and the client needs to bootstrap
						through HTTP. In general, there is no need to change this value (unless you
						run a custom Couchbase Server build during development or testing that runs
						on different ports).</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>		
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>Config HTTP Encrypted Port</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>bootstrapHttpSslPort(int)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>18091</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>bootstrapHttpSslPort</codeph></dd>
					<dd> The port which is used if encryption is enabled and the client needs to bootstrap through
						HTTP. In general, there is no need to change this value (unless you run a
						custom Couchbase Server build during development or testing that runs on
						different ports).</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>		
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>Config Loading through Carrier Publication</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>bootstrapCarrierEnabled(boolean)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>true</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>bootstrapCarrierEnabled</codeph></dd>
					<dd> If you are running Couchbase Server 2.5 or later, this is the preferred way to bootstrap
						and grab configurations. It is not done over HTTP, but through the key-value
						connections automatically. If this setting is manually disabled, the client
						will fallback to HTTP (if enabled). If both option are disabled, the client
						is not able to function properly. If you don't have a good reason to disable
						it (for example as instructed by Couchbase Support), keep it enabled.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>		
			
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>Config Carrier Non-Encrypted Port</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>bootstrapCarrierDirectPort(int)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>11210</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>bootstrapCarrierDirectPort</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The port which is used if encryption is not enabled and the client needs to bootstrap
						through carrier publication. In general, there is no need to change this
						value (unless you run a custom Couchbase Server build during development or
						testing that runs on different ports).</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>		
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>Config Carrier Encrypted Port</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>bootstrapCarrierSslPort(int)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>11207</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>bootstrapCarrierSslPort</codeph></dd>
					<dd> The port which is used if encryption is enabled and the client needs to bootstrap through
						carrier publication. In general, there is no need to change this value
						(unless you run a custom Couchbase Server build during development or
						testing that runs on different ports).</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>		
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>DNS SRV Enabled</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>dnsSrvEnabled(boolean)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>false</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>dnsSrvEnabled</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Enable manually if you explicitly want to grab a bootstrap node list through a DNS SRV
						record. See the "Connection Management" section for more information on how
						to use it properly.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>		
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>Mutation Tokens Enabled</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>mutationTokensEnabled(boolean)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>false</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>mutationTokensEnabled</codeph></dd>
<<<<<<< HEAD
					<dd>If mutation tokens should be enabled, adding more overhead to every mutation but providing
						enhanced durability requirements as well as advanced N1QL querying
						capabilities.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>		
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
=======
					<dd>If mutation tokens should be enabled, adding more overhead to every mutation but providing enhanced durability requirements as well as advanced N1QL querying capabilities.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>		
>>>>>>> 5f28d521758ee0041b20af3c4a16a4725faedae3

			<p>Timeouts apply only for blocking operations. All asynchronous operations must chain in their
				own <codeph>timeout()</codeph> operators in order to apply a timeout. All default values
				can be overridden through the overloaded methods that accept both a time and time unit.
				All timeouts are reasonable defaults and should be adjusted to the environments after
				profiling the expected latencies.</p>
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Timeout options</title>

			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>Key-Value Timeout</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>kvTimeout(long)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>2500ms</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>kvTimeout</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The Key/Value default timeout is used on all blocking operations which are performed on a
						specific key if not overridden by a custom timeout. It does not affect
						asynchronous operations. This includes all commands like get(),
						getFromReplica() and all mutation commands.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>		
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>View Timeout</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>viewTimeout(long)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default:<codeph>75000ms</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>viewTimeout</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The View timeout is used on both regular and geospatial view operations if not overridden
						by a custom timeout. It does not affect asynchronous operations. Note that
						it is set to such a high timeout compared to key/value since it can affect
						hundreds or thousands of rows. Also, if there is a node failure during the
						request the internal cluster timeout is set to 60 seconds.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>		
			
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>Query Timeout</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>queryTimeout(long)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default:<codeph>75000ms</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>queryTimeout</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The Query timeout is used on all N1QL query operations if not overridden by a custom
						timeout. It does not affect asynchronous operations. Note that it is set to
						such a high timeout compared to key/value since it can affect hundreds or
						thousands of rows.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
			
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>Connect Timeout</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>connectTimeout(long)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default:<codeph>5000ms</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>connectTimeout</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The connect timeout is used when a Bucket is opened and if not overridden by a custom
						timeout. It does not affect asynchronous operations. If you feel the urge to
						change this value to something higher, there is a good chance that your
						network is not properly set up. Opening a bucket should in practice not take
						longer than a second on a resonably fast network.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>Disconnect Timeout</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>disconnectTimeout(long)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default:<codeph>25000ms</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>disconnectTimeout</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The disconnect timeout is used when a Cluster is disconnect or a Bucket is closed
						synchronously and if not overridden by a custom timeout. It does not affect
						asynchronous operations. A timeout is applied here always to make sure that
						your code does not get stuck at shutdown. 25 seconds should provide enough
						room to drain all outstanding operations properly, but make sure to adapt
						this timeout to fit your application requirements.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
			
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>Management Timeout</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>managementTimeout(long)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default:<codeph>75000ms</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>managementTimeout</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The management timeout is used on all synchronous BucketManager and
						ClusterManager operations and if not overridden by a custom timeout. It set
						to a quite high timeout because some operations might take a longer time to
						complete (for example flush).</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
		</section>
		<section><title>Reliability options</title>
			
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>Reconnect Delay</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>reconnectDelay(Delay)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>Exponential between 32ms and 4096ms</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>-</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The reconnect delay defines the time intervals between a socket getting closed on the SDK
						side and trying to reopen (reconnect) to it. The default is to retry
						relatively quickly (32ms) and then gradually approach 4 second intervals, so
						that in case a server is longer down than usual the clients do not flood the
						server with socket requests. Feel free to tune this interval based on your
						application requirements. Applying a very large ceiling may lead to longer
						down times than needed, while very short delays may flood the target node
						and spam the network unnecessarily.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
			
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>Retry Delay</b></dt>
					<dd>Method:  <codeph>retryDelay(Delay)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>Exponential between 100µs and 100ms</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property:  <codeph>-</codeph></dd>
					<dd>When a request needs to be retried for some reason (for example if the retry strategy is
						best effort and the target node is not reachable), this delay configures the
						boundaries. An internal counter tracks the number of retries for a given
						request and it gradually increases by default from a very quick 100
						microseconds up to a 100 millisecond delay. The operation will be retried
						until it succeeds or the maximum request lifetime is reached. If you find
						yourself wanting to tweak this value to a very low setting, you might want
						to consider a different retry strategy like "fail fast" to get tighter
						control on the retry handling yourself.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
			
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>Retry Strategy</b></dt>
					<dd>Method:  <codeph>retryStrategy(RetryStrategy)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>Best Effort</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property:  <codeph>-</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The retry strategy decides if an operation should be retried or canceled. While
						implementing a custom strategy is fairly advanced, the SDK ships with two
						out of the box: BestEffortRetryStrategy and FailFastRetryStrategy. The first
						one will retry the operation until it either succeeds or the maximum request
						lifetime is reached. The fail fast strategy will cancel it right away and
						therefore the client needs to be prepared to retry on its own, but gets much
						tighter control on when and how to retry. See the advanced section in the
						documentation on more specific information on retry strategies and failure
						management.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
			
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>Maximum Request Lifetime</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>maxRequestLifetime(long)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>75000ms</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>maxRequestLifetime</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The maximum request lifetime is used by the best effort retry strategy to decide if its
						time to cancel the request instead of retrying it again. This is needed in
						order to prevent requests from circling around forever and occupying
						precious slots in the request ring buffer. Make sure to set this higher than
						the largest timeout in your application, otherwise you risk requests being
						canceled prematurely. This is why the default value is set to 75 seconds,
						which is the highest default timeout on the environment.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
			
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>Socket Keepalive Interval</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>keepAliveInterval(long)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>30000ms</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>keepAliveInterval</codeph></dd>
					<dd>To avoid nasty firewalls and other network equipment cutting of stale TCP connections, at
						the configured interval the client will send a heartbeat keepalive message
						to the remote node and port. This only happens if for the given amount of
						time no traffic has happened, so if a socket is busy sending data back and
						forth it will have no effect. If you set this value to 0, no keepalive will
						be sent over the sockets.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Performance options</title>

			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>Observe Interval</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>observeIntervalDelay(Delay)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>Exponential between 10µs and 100ms</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>-</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The way PersistTo and ReplicateTo work is that once the regular mutation operation
						succeeds, the key state on the target nodes is polled until the desired
						state is reached. Since replication and persistence latency differs greatly
						on servers (fast or slow networks and disks), this value can be tuned for
						maximum efficiency. The tradeoffs to consider here is how quickly the
						desired state is detected as well as how much the SDK will spam the network.
						The default is an exponential delay, starting with very short intervals but
						very quickly approaching the 100 milliseconds if replication or persistence
						takes longer than expected. You should monitor the average persistence and
						replication latency and adjust the delay accordingly.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>	
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>Key/Value Endpoints per Node</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>kvEndpoints(int)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>1</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>kvEndpoints</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The number of actual endpoints (sockets) to open per Node in the cluster against the
						Key/value service. By default, for every node in the cluster one socket is
						opened where all traffic is pushed through. That way the SDK implicitly
						benefits from network batching characteristics when the workload increases.
						If you suspect based on profiling and benchmarking that the socket is
						saturated you can think about slightly increasing it to have more "parallel
						pipelines". This might be especially helpful if you need to push large
						documents through it. The recommendation is keeping it at 1 unless there is
						other evidence.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>	
			
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name: <b>View Endpoints per Node</b></dt>
					<dd>Method:<codeph>viewEndpoints(int)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>1</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>viewEndpoints</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The number of actual endpoints (sockets) to open per node in
						the cluster against the view service. By default only one socket is opened
						to avoid unnecessary wasting resources. If you plan to run a view heavy
						workload, especially paired with larger responses, increasing this value
						significantly (most likely between 5 and 10) can provide greater throughput.
						Keep in mind that these sockets will then be always open, even when no load
						is passed through. We recommend that you tune this value based on evidence
						obtained during benchmarking with a real workload. If no view load is
						expected, setting this value explicitly to 0 can avoid one socket to 8092
						per node.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>	
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name:  <b>Query Endpoints per Node</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>queryEndpoints(int)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>1</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>queryEndpoints</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The number of actual endpoints (sockets) to open per Node in the cluster against the Query
						(N1QL) service. By default only one socket is opened to avoid unnecessary
						wasting resources. If you plan to run a query heavy workload, especially
						paired with larger responses, increasing this value significantly (most
						likely between 5 and 10) can provide greater throughput. Keep in mind that
						these sockets will then be always open, even when no load is passed through.
						We are recommending to tune this value based on evidence during benchmarking
						with a real workload. If no query load is expected, setting this value
						explicitly to 0 can avoid one socket to 8093 per node.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>	
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name:  <b>I/O Thread Pool Size</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>ioPoolSize(int)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>Runtime#availableProcessors()</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>ioPoolSize</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The number of threads in the I/O thread pool. This defaults to the number of available
						processors that the runtime returns (which, as a well known fact, sometimes
						does not represent the actual number of processors). Every thread represents
						an internal event loop where all needed socket are multiplexed on. The
						default value should be fine most of the time, it may only need to be tuned
						if you run a very large number of nodes in the cluster or the runtime value
						is incorrect. As a rule of thumb, it should roughly correlate with the
						number of cores available to the JVM.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>	
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name:  <b>Computation Thread Pool Size</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>computationPoolSize(int)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>Runtime#availableProcessors()</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>computationPoolSize</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The number of threads in the computation thread pool. This defaults to the number of
						available processors that the runtime returns (which, as a well known fact,
						sometimes does not represent the actual number of processors). Every thread
						represents an internal event loop where all needed computation tasks are
						run. The default value should be fine most of the time, it might only need
						to be tuned if you run more than usual CPU-intensive tasks and profiling the
						application indicates fully saturated threads in the pool. As a rule of
						thumb, it should roughly correlate with the number of cores available to the
						JVM.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>	
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name:  <b>I/O Pool Group</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>ioPool(EventLoopGroup)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>NioEventLoopGroup</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>-</codeph></dd>
					<dd>For those who want the last drop of performance, on Linux Netty provides a way to use edge
						triggered epoll instead of going through JVM NIO. This provides better
						throughput, lower latency and less garbage. Note that this mode has not been
						tested by Couchbase and therefore is not supported officially. If you like
						to take a walk on the wild side, you can find out more here: Netty
						Native-transports.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>	
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name:  <b>TCP Nodelay</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>tcpNodelayEnabled(boolean)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>true</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>tcpNodelayEnabled</codeph></dd>
					<dd>By default, TCP Nodelay is turned on (which in effect turns off "nagleing"), and if
						possible negotiated with the server as well. If this is set to false,
						"nagleing" is turned on. Make sure to only turn off TCP nodelay if you know
						what you are doing, because it can lead to decreased performance.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>	
		

			<p>Values for the advanced options listed in the following table should not be changed unless
				there is a very good reason to do so.</p>
		</section>
		<section><title>Advanced options</title>
				
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name:  <b>Request Ring Buffer Size</b></dt>
					<dd>Method:<codeph>requestBufferSize(int)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>16384</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>requestBufferSize</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The size of the request ring buffer where all request initially are stored and then picked
						up to be pushed onto the I/O threads. Tuning this to a lower value will more
						quickly lead to BackpressureExceptions during overload or failure scenarios.
						Setting it to a higher value means backpressure will take longer to occur,
						but more requests will potentially be queued up and more heap space is
						used.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
			
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name:  <b>Response Ring Buffer Size</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>responseBufferSize(int)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>16384</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>responseBufferSize</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The size of the response ring buffer where all responses are passed through from the I/O
						threads before the target Observable is completed. Since the I/O threads are
						pushing data in this ring buffer, setting it to a lower value is likely to
						have a negative effect on I/O performance. In general it should be kept in
						line with the request ring buffer size.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
			
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name:  <b>Computation Scheduler</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>scheduler(Scheduler)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>CoreScheduler</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>-</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The scheduler used for all CPU-intensive, non-blocking computations in the core, client and
						in user space. This is a slightly modified version of the
						ComputationScheduler that ships with RxJava, mainly for the reason to
						manually name threads as needed. Changing the scheduler should be used with
						extra care, especially since lots of internal components also depend on
						it.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
			
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name:  <b>User Agent String</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>userAgent(String)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>Based on OS, Runtime and SDK Version</codeph>
					</dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>-</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The user agent string that is used to identify the SDK against the Couchbase Server cluster
						on different occasions, for example when doing a view or query request.
						There is no need to tune that because it is dynamically generated based on
						properties set during build time (based on the package name and version, OS
						and runtime).</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
			
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name:  <b>Package Name and Version Identifier</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>packageNameAndVersion(String)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>Based on SDK Version</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>-</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The package name and identifier is used as part of the user agent string and in the
						environment info output to see which version of the SDK the application is
						running. There is no need to change it because it is dynamically generated
						based on properties set during build time.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name:  <b>Event Bus</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>eventBus(EventBus)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>DefaultEventBus</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>-</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The event bus implementation used to transport system, performance and debug events from
						producers to subscribers. The default implementation is based on an internal
						RxJava Subject which does not cache the values and only pushes subsequent
						events to the subscribers. If you provide a custom implementation, double
						check that it fits with the contract of the event bus as documented.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name:  <b>DCP Enabled</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>dcpEnabled(boolean)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>false</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>dcpEnabled</codeph></dd>
					<dd>DCP is not ready for prime time in clients, but this configuration switch is available
						because all parameters from the core-io module are inherited. If you have
						active need for DCP, get in touch with the Couchbase team.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name:  <b>Buffer Pooling Enabled</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>bufferPoolingEnabled(boolean)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>true</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>bufferPoolingEnabled</codeph></dd>
					<dd>If the SDK is suspect to buffer leaks (it pools buffers in its IO layer for performance)
						you can set this field to false. This will make sure buffers are not pooled,
						but remember the tradeoff here is higher GC pressure on the system. Only
						turn off to prevent a memory leak from happening (in production). If you
						suspect a memory leak, please open a bug ticket.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name:  <b>Runtime Metrics Collector</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>runtimeMetricsCollectorConfig (MetricsCollectorConfig)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>DefaultMetricsCollectorConfig</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>-</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The configuration of the runtime metrics collector can be modified (or completely
						disabled). By default, it will emit an event every hour.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name:  <b>Network Latency Metrics Collector</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>networkLatencyMetricsCollectorConfig
							(LatencyMetricsCollectorConfig)</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>DefaultLatencyMetricsCollectorConfig</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>-</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The configuration of the network latency metrics collector can be modified (or completely
						disabled). By deault, it will emit an event every hour, but collect the
						stats all the time.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Name:  <b>Default Metrics Consumer</b></dt>
					<dd>Method: <codeph>defaultMetricsLoggingConsumer(boolean, CouchbaseLogLevel,OutputFormat)
						</codeph></dd>
					<dd>Default: <codeph>enabled, INFO, JSON</codeph></dd>
					<dd>System Property: <codeph>-</codeph></dd>
					<dd>The default metric consumer which will log all metric events. You can configure if it
						should be enabled, as well as the log level and the target output
						format.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
			

		</section>
	</conbody>
</concept>
