<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept2677">
	<title>Migrating from Java SDK 1.4.x to 2.x</title>
	<shortdesc>Couchbase recommends that you migrate to the Java 2.x SDK to take advantage of
		enhancements to the SDK as well as new features available in Couchbase Server.</shortdesc>
	<conbody>
		<p>The 2.x Java
			SDK is based on the reactive programming model and has a completely different architecture
			that uses a core I/O layer and a Java client layer. It's asynchronous by design and offers
			performance, scalability, and durability enhancements.</p>
		<p>This guide helps you migrate from the previous generation of the Java SDK (version
				<codeph>1.4.x</codeph>) to this new generation SDK (version <codeph>2.x</codeph>).</p>
		<p>If you plan on using the synchronous blocking API, you can follow the simple migration
			path. Or, you can follow the optional migration path to fully reactive and asynchronous
			code by using the asynchronous API, which provides the best performance.</p>

		<p>To get the full benefit of using the asynchronous code with this new generation SDK, you need
			to understand how to build asynchronous yet expressive code by leveraging the
				<codeph>Observable</codeph> paradigm. To learn more about using <codeph>Observables</codeph>, see
				<xref href="observables.dita"/>.</p>

		<section>
			<title>Getting Started</title>

			<p>The 2.x generation of the Java SDK is a complete rewrite of the 1.x SDK. It is layered
				into <codeph>core-io</codeph> and <codeph>java-client</codeph> pieces. The
					<codeph>java-client</codeph> layer is more abstract and closer to the client. The
					<codeph>core-io</codeph> layer is purely asynchronous and message-oriented. It makes
				use of a reactive architecture based on <xref href="http://netty.io" format="html"
					scope="external">Netty</xref>, the <xref
					href="https://github.com/LMAX-Exchange/disruptor/wiki" format="html" scope="external"
					>LMAX Disruptor</xref>, and most importantly <xref
					href="https://github.com/ReactiveX/RxJava" format="html" scope="external"
					>RxJava</xref>.</p>

			<note type="important">The <codeph>core-io</codeph> layer is not intended for broad consumption.
				In general, you should focus on using the <codeph>java-client</codeph> layer in your
				application. For advanced use cases, when you are trying to squeeze out the very
				last drop of performance working with the raw byte stream or building a client layer
				in another language, you can use the <codeph>core-io</codeph> layer. </note>

			<p>The client exposes the server-side concepts of a <codeph>Cluster</codeph> and
					<codeph>Bucket</codeph>s as first-class citizens that replace the previous
					<codeph>CouchbaseClient</codeph> class. Each class exposes a <b>synchronous</b> API
				by default, but an <b>asynchronous</b> API (based on RxJava <codeph>Observable</codeph>
				objects) can be accessed simply by calling <codeph>async()</codeph> on either one.</p>

			<p>This split also allows for much more efficient resource utilization. In the past, each
					<codeph>CouchbaseClient</codeph> (for each bucket) had its resources, but now
				they are as shared as much as possible, and the <codeph>Cluster</codeph> and
					<codeph>Bucket</codeph> references can always be reused.</p>

			<p>To differentiate this rewrite from the previous generation, the <codeph>Maven</codeph>
				artifact has been renamed from <codeph>couchbase-client</codeph> to
					<codeph>java-client</codeph>. It has minimal transitive dependencies (by embedding a
				few internal dependencies like Netty), most essentially RxJava 1.x:</p>

			<codeblock outputclass="language-xml"><![CDATA[<dependencies>
    <dependency>
        <groupId>com.couchbase.client</groupId>
        <artifactId>java-client</artifactId>
        <version>2.2.2</version>
    </dependency>
</dependencies>
]]></codeblock>

			<p>
				<note type="important">After you've fully migrated, make sure that old dependencies to
						<codeph>couchbase-client</codeph> or dependencies introduced in your POM because
					of the <codeph>couchbase-client</codeph> have been removed.</note>
			</p>


			<p>You'll most probably want the SDK to perform some logging, which can easily be activated
				by adding a logging framework such as <xref href="http://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/"
					format="html" scope="external">log4j</xref> to your dependencies. For more
				information about configuring logging, see <xref href="logging.dita" />.</p>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Initializing the connection</title>
			<p><codeph>CouchbaseClient</codeph> is replaced by the <codeph>Cluster</codeph> and
					<codeph>Bucket</codeph> classes, bringing real-world concepts of Couchbase into the
				SDK as first-class citizens. For more information about using these classes, see <xref
					href="managing-connections.dita" />. </p>
			<p>Compared to the 1.4.x SDK, when providing a list of nodes for bootstrapping, you only need
				hostnames or IP addresses in <codeph>String</codeph> form. No need for the URI
				anymore, and no need for the port and pools path either: </p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Cluster cluster = CouchbaseCluster.create("192.168.0.1");]]></codeblock>
			<p>The SDK uses the factory method pattern to create the Cluster object. This pattern is
				heavily used throughout the SDK in place of constructors.</p>

			<p>The <codeph>Cluster</codeph> and each <codeph>Bucket</codeph> reference must be reused as much
				as possible. Make them singletons, which can be used by multiple threads safely. Here's
				an example that uses a naive helper approach: </p>

			<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[public class CouchbaseHelper {

    //the IPs / hostnames would be obtained from configuration file
    private static final List<String> SEED_IPS = Arrays.asList("192.168.0.1", "192.168.0.2");

    public static final Cluster CLUSTER = CouchbaseCluster.create(SEED_IPS);

    public static final Bucket EXAMPLEBUCKET = CLUSTER.openBucket("example", "p4ssW0rd");
}
            ]]></codeblock>

			<p>You can customize the connection to the <codeph>Cluster</codeph> via the
					<codeph>CouchbaseEnvironment</codeph> interface (see <xref href="env-config.dita" />
				for more details): </p>

			<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[public class CouchbaseHelper {

    //the IPs / hostnames would be obtained from configuration file
    private static final List<String> SEED_IPS = Arrays.asList("192.168.0.1", "192.168.0.2");

    //the environment configuration
    private static final CouchbaseEnvironment ENV = DefaultCouchbaseEnvironment.builder()
        .connectTimeout(8 * 1000) // 8 Seconds in milliseconds
        .keepAliveInterval(3600 * 1000) // 3600 Seconds in milliseconds
    .build();

    public static final Cluster CLUSTER = CouchbaseCluster.create(ENV, SEED_IPS);

    public static final Bucket EXAMPLEBUCKET = CLUSTER.openBucket("example", "p4ssW0rd");
}
            ]]></codeblock>
		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Working With Data</title>
			<p>In the new SDK, a new model of data within Couchbase is introduced: the
					<codeph>Document</codeph> class. It encapsulates both the content itself and the
				metadata ( <codeph>id</codeph>, <codeph>expiry</codeph> and <codeph>cas</codeph>
				information). See <xref href="documents.dita" /> for additional information. </p>
			<p>The SDK has several implementations of <codeph>Document</codeph>. By default, most SDK methods
				assume the content is JSON and return a <codeph>JsonDocument</codeph>. This kind of
				document use standardized storing flags, which make it compatible with the other
				second generation SDKs in other languages. If you already deal with JSON transcoding
				to domain objects, use the <codeph>RawJsonDocument</codeph> instead, which exposes
				the JSON String as content instead of a superfluous <codeph>JsonObject</codeph>. </p>
			<note>To interact with documents stored by an older Java SDK, use the
					<codeph>LegacyDocument</codeph> class. This class provides 1:1 compatibility
				with the 1.4 SDK, but consider to migrate to a new implementation after backward
				compatibility isn't required anymore. </note>
			<p>Concerning optimistic locking—because the CAS is now part of the
					<codeph>Document</codeph>, the SDK picks it up if it is non-zero during mutating
				operations. To learn more about mutating operations, see <xref
					href="documents-updating.dita" />. </p>
		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Working Asynchronously</title>
			<p>In the 2.x SDK, asynchronous processing is done via RxJava. The asynchronous API is not mixed
				with the synchronous API, but rather accessible via the <codeph>async()</codeph>
				method on <codeph>Cluster</codeph> and <codeph>Bucket</codeph>. </p>

			<p>The SDK is thread-safe and uses a pool of threads internally for operations (so they are
				effectively processed in a separate thread). Additionally, some Rx operators use one
				of the <codeph>Schedulers</codeph> provided by RxJava (meaning it could execute in
				another thread). </p>

			<p>The SDK doesn't use <codeph>Future</codeph> objects anymore. For progressive migration
				purposes, you can convert an <codeph>Observable</codeph> into a <codeph>Future</codeph>
				and vice-versa. Here's an example of how to do that:</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[//converting these to/from Future
Observable<String> myStringObservable;
Future<String> myStringFuture;

//this expects exactly one item emitted
Future<String> f = myStringObservable.toBlocking().toFuture();

//when several items expected, use a List
Future<List<String>> f = myStringObservable.toList().toBlocking().toFuture();

//convert back from a Future<String>
Observable<String> o = Observable.from(myStringFuture);
                ]]></codeblock>

		</section>

	</conbody>
</concept>
