<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept2677">
	<title>Mastering Observables</title>
	<shortdesc>This section helps you to get up to speed with asynchronous programming and
            <codeph>Observable</codeph> objects in particular. </shortdesc>
	<conbody>


		<section>
			<title>Motivation</title>

			<p>Asynchronous and reactive methodologies allow you to utilize system resources better. Instead
                of wasting a thread waiting for network or disk I/O, it can be fully utilized to
                perform other work instead.</p>

			<p>A broad range of technologies is available to facilitate this style of programming, ranging
                from the very limited and not really usable
                    <codeph>java.util.concurrent.Future</codeph> to complete libraries and runtimes
                like <xref href="http://akka.io" format="html" scope="external">Akka</xref>. A
                database driver must meet the following requirements:</p>

			<ul>
				<li>Rich functionality</li>
				<li>Interoperable and not opinionated</li>
				<li>Performant</li>
				<li>Small dependency and runtime footprint</li>
			</ul>

			<p>After evaluating the requirements and solutions closely, one library stood out: <xref
                href="http://reactivex.io/" format="html" scope="external">RxJava</xref>. It has
				a very rich set to compose asynchronous workflows, has no dependencies on its own and is
				used at high-profile companies like Netflix. The Rx model is mature and well thought
				out, and the community is vibrant.</p>

			<p>Couchbase hopes that after you read through the introduction and get more familiar with the
                concept, you will never want to go back. Couchbase fully supports blocking
                operations as well, so you can still use a traditional blocking-based model if you
                indeed want to.</p>

			<p>The next section gradually introduces you to the world of <term>Observables</term>, the first
                step to masterhood. If you want to learn more about the motivation, read on
                here.</p>
		</section>

		<section><title>Java 8, lambdas and anonymous classes</title><p>Before jumping into the details,
                one thing warrants clarification: RxJava and, therefore, the Java SDK, fully
                supports Java 8. This support brings some great improvements, most prominently
                support for <term>lambdas</term> and <term>method references</term>.</p><p>Because
                the Java SDK has support for Java 6 and 7, most of the examples shown in the
                documentation use anonymous classes instead of lambdas. You are free and even
                encouraged to use them if you can, but Java 8 on production servers is still a few
                months or even years away at most companies. That said, Couchbase expects the SDK to
                be around for a long time and want to pave the way for the future right now.
                </p><p>To whet your appetite, compare some Java 6 code to Java 8 code (same code).
                </p><p>Here's an example with the Java 6 code:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// Loads 3 documents in parallel
Observable
    .just("doc1", "doc2", "doc3")
    .flatMap(new Func1<String, Observable<JsonDocument>>() {
        @Override
        public Observable<JsonDocument> call(String id) {
            return bucket.get(id);
        }
    }).subscribe(new Action1<JsonDocument>() {
        @Override
        public void call(JsonDocument document) {
            System.out.println("Got: " + document);
        }
    });]]></codeblock> Here's the same code written in Java 8: <codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// Loads 3 documents in parallel
Observable
    .just("doc1", "doc2", "doc3")
    .flatMap(bucket::get)
    .subscribe(document -> System.out.println("Got: " + document));]]></codeblock><p>RxJava has
                support for other languages such as Scala, Groovy or Clojure. If you are using one
                of those languages, refer to the RxJava documentation on how to use the adapters.
            </p></section>

		<section>
			<title>Understanding Observables</title>

			<p>You can think of an <term>Observable</term> as the push-based, asynchronous cousin
                ("dual") of the pull-based, synchronous <term>iterable</term>. The contract of
                an <codeph>Observable</codeph> is that zero to N data events can happen, followed by
                a complete event. An error event can also happen at any time and complete the
                    <codeph>Observable</codeph>.</p>

			<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_qpl_ttq_44">
   <title>The duality of Iterable and Observable</title>

   <tgroup cols="3">
    <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="4.39*"/>
    <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="4.29*"/>
    <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="4.4*"/>
    <thead>
     <row>
      <entry>Event</entry>
      <entry>Iterable (Pull)</entry>
      <entry>Observable (Push)</entry>
     </row>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <row>
        <entry>retrieve data</entry>
        <entry><codeph>T next()</codeph></entry>
        <entry><codeph>onNext(T)</codeph></entry>
      </row>
      <row>
        <entry>discover error</entry>
        <entry><codeph>throws Exception</codeph></entry>
        <entry><codeph>onError(Exception)</codeph></entry>
      </row>
      <row>
        <entry>complete</entry>
        <entry><codeph>returns</codeph></entry>
        <entry><codeph>onCompleted()</codeph></entry>
      </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
</table>

		<p>An <codeph>Observable</codeph> can also be converted into a
				<codeph>BlockingObservable</codeph>, which then, unsurprisingly, behaves very much like
				an <codeph>Iterable</codeph>.</p>

		<p>The key element to take away is that an <codeph>Observable&lt;T&gt;</codeph> can emit 0 to N
                events, which is very different than a <codeph>Future&lt;T&gt;</codeph> that only
                contains one value. After you start to work on streams instead of single values, you
                will very much appreciate this fact.</p>

		<p>By definition, an <codeph>Observable</codeph> does not imply that the underlying code is
                executed asynchronously. As a consumer of an <codeph>Observable</codeph>, you leave
                the actual implementation to the supplier, who can change it later on without you
                having to adapt your code. Imagine, you are consuming this API:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[public interface FooService {
    Observable<String> load();
}]]></codeblock>

		<p>It could be that when <codeph>load()</codeph> is called, the <codeph>String</codeph> value is
                fetched right out of a <codeph>Map</codeph> in memory (or even a hard-coded value).
                In this case, there is no need to move the execution away from the caller thread,
                because the value will be returned instantaneously. If later the implementation
                needs to be changed so that the <codeph>String</codeph> is loaded through a web
                service (introducing latency and other semantics), the API doesn't need to be
                changed because the underlying implementation is free to move it to a
                    <codeph>Scheduler</codeph>.</p>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Consuming Observables</title>

			<p>The first thing you want to do when working with <codeph>Observables</codeph> is to consume them. Consuming an
				<codeph>Observable</codeph> means subscribing to it. Here is an example that subscribes and prints out
				all the items emitted:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .just(1, 2, 3)
    .subscribe(new Subscriber<Integer>() {
        @Override
        public void onCompleted() {
            System.out.println("Completed Observable.");
        }

        @Override
        public void onError(Throwable throwable) {
            System.err.println("Whoops: " + throwable.getMessage());
        }

        @Override
        public void onNext(Integer integer) {
            System.out.println("Got: " + integer);
        }
    });]]></codeblock>

    <p>The example prints the following lines:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[Got: 1
Got: 2
Got: 3
Completed Observable.]]></codeblock>

	<p>You can see that our <codeph>Observer</codeph> gets notified of every event and also receives
                the completed event.<note>A well-formed <codeph>Observable</codeph> invokes its subscriber’s
                        <codeph>onNext</codeph> method zero or more times and then invokes either
                    the <codeph>onCompleted</codeph> or <codeph>onError</codeph> method exactly
                    once.</note></p>

	<p>You can also test the error case by throwing an artificial exception when the value 2 is emitted:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .just(1, 2, 3)
    .doOnNext(new Action1<Integer>() {
        @Override
        public void call(Integer integer) {
            if (integer.equals(2)) {
                throw new RuntimeException("I don't like 2");
            }
        }
    })
    .subscribe(new Subscriber<Integer>() {
        @Override
        public void onCompleted() {
            System.out.println("Completed Observable.");
        }

        @Override
        public void onError(Throwable throwable) {
            System.err.println("Whoops: " + throwable.getMessage());
        }

        @Override
        public void onNext(Integer integer) {
            System.out.println("Got: " + integer);
        }
    });]]></codeblock>

    <p>The example prints:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[Got: 1
Whoops: I don't like 2]]></codeblock>

	<p>The first value gets through without problems, the second value throws an exception and,
                therefore, terminates the <codeph>Observable</codeph>. No subsequent values are allowed to be emitted
                after an error event.</p>

	<p><note>The <codeph>subscribe</codeph> method also returns a <codeph>Subscription</codeph> that you
                    can use to <codeph>unsubscribe</codeph> and not receive further events.</note></p>

	<p>Even if you don't unsubscribe explicitly, operations like <codeph>take</codeph> do that for you
				implicitly. The following code only takes the first five values and then
				unsubscribes:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .just("The", "Dave", "Brubeck", "Quartet", "Time", "Out")
    .take(5)
    .subscribe(new Subscriber<String>() {
        @Override
        public void onCompleted() {
            System.out.println("Completed Observable.");
        }

        @Override
        public void onError(Throwable throwable) {
            System.err.println("Whoops: " + throwable.getMessage());
        }

        @Override
        public void onNext(String name) {
            System.out.println("Got: " + name);
        }
    });]]></codeblock>

	<p>This prints:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[Got: The
Got: Dave
Got: Brubeck
Got: Quartet
Got: Time
Completed Observable.]]></codeblock>

		<p><note>If you take a close look at the API, <codeph>subscribe()</codeph> can be fed with either an <codeph>Observer</codeph> or a <codeph>Subscriber</codeph>. Unless you are implementing a custom <codeph>Observer</codeph>, always use <codeph>Subscriber</codeph> (because otherwise it will be wrapped in one internally anyway and you are saving unnecessary object allocations).</note></p>

		<p>You do not need to implement the full subscriber every time. If you are only interested in the
				data events, you can subscribe like this:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .just(1, 2, 3)
    .subscribe(new Action1<Integer>() {
        @Override
        public void call(Integer integer) {
            System.out.println("Got: " + integer);
        }
    });]]></codeblock>

    <p>Be aware though that if an error happens, the following exception will be propagated:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[Exception in thread "main" rx.exceptions.OnErrorNotImplementedException
	at rx.Observable$36.onError(Observable.java:8412)
	at rx.observers.SafeSubscriber._onError(SafeSubscriber.java:128)
	at rx.observers.SafeSubscriber.onError(SafeSubscriber.java:97)
	at rx.internal.operators.OperatorDoOnEach$1.onError(OperatorDoOnEach.java:67)
	at rx.internal.operators.OperatorDoOnEach$1.onNext(OperatorDoOnEach.java:78)
	at rx.internal.operators.OnSubscribeFromIterable$IterableProducer
          .request(OnSubscribeFromIterable.java:76)
	...]]></codeblock>

	<p>It is recommended always to implement an error handler right from the beginning since things can
                and will go wrong at some point. It can come in handy though if you just want to try
                things out quickly or for illustrative purposes.</p>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>From asynchronous to synchronous</title>

			<p>As long as your <codeph>Observable</codeph> works on the same thread all the time, there is no
                need for communication between threads since only one is executing. When your
                    <codeph>Observable</codeph> flow gets executed on a different thread, you need
                to take some extra care to make sure you are not missing values. This is not
                specific to <codeph>Observables</codeph>: every time you need to deal with parallel
                threads you need to think about synchronization and communication.</p>

            <p><note>Most of the snippets in this documentation only call <codeph>subscribe</codeph>. You should
                    ensure that your program doesn't terminate before <codeph>onCompleted()</codeph>
                    is called (e.g., via <codeph>toBlocking()</codeph> or a
                        <apiname>CountDownLatch</apiname>) and be aware of that when trying to
                    replicate a snippet in its Main class.</note></p>

            <p><note>You should never perform long-running blocking operations inside of an asynchronous stream (eg. inside of <codeph>map</codeph>s or <codeph>flatMap</codeph>s).</note></p>

			<p>The following code emits an increasing value every second, which is done on a different
                thread:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[public static void main(String... args) {
    Observable
        .interval(1, TimeUnit.SECONDS)
        .subscribe(new Action1<Long>() {
            @Override
            public void call(Long counter) {
                System.out.println("Got: " + counter);
            }
        });
}]]></codeblock>

    <p>It works perfectly fine; the only problem is though chances are you won't see anything
                printed out. Your main thread exits before the background thread had a chance to run
                and emit values.</p>

    <p>A common way to deal with such a situation is to add a <codeph>CountDownLatch</codeph>, which
                allows you to synchronize between different threads. One thread counts down the
                latch; the other one waits until it is counted down:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[final CountDownLatch latch = new CountDownLatch(5);
Observable
    .interval(1, TimeUnit.SECONDS)
    .subscribe(new Action1<Long>() {
        @Override
        public void call(Long counter) {
            latch.countDown();
            System.out.println("Got: " + counter);
        }
    });

latch.await();]]></codeblock>

    <p>The example prints the following lines and then exits:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[Got: 0
Got: 1
Got: 2
Got: 3
Got: 4]]></codeblock>

	<p><note>One common mistake is to use <codeph>Thread.sleep()</codeph> instead of a latch to synchronize
                    the execution between threads. This is a bad idea because it synchronizes
                    nothing and just keeps one thread alive for a specific amount of time. If the
                    actual calls take less time you are wasting time, and if it takes longer you
                    won't get the desired effect. If you do this in unit tests, be prepared for a
                    good amount of non-determinism and randomly failing tests. <p><b>Always use a
                            <codeph>CountDownLatch</codeph>!</b></p></note></p>

	<p>A technique unique to <codeph>Observables</codeph> is to convert it into a <codeph>BlockingObservable</codeph> to
                achieve the same effect. In simple terms, it converts an <codeph>Observable</codeph>
                into an <codeph>iterable</codeph> and makes it execute on the caller thread,
                blocking it until one or more values arrive. This technique is used extensively in
                the documentation to show concepts, while not having to deal with count-down latches
                all the time. It can also be used if you for some reason are not able to use
                asynchronous computations.</p>

	<p>The conversion itself doesn't do any blocking in the first place, only subsequent calls will:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// This does not block.
BlockingObservable<Long> observable = Observable
    .interval(1, TimeUnit.SECONDS)
    .toBlocking();

// This blocks and is called for every emitted item.
observable.forEach(new Action1<Long>() {
    @Override
    public void call(Long counter) {
        System.out.println("Got: " + counter);
    }
});]]></codeblock>

    <p>Because this will run forever, you are free to chain any asynchronous computations before.
				Thus, you can build an asynchronous workflow and then block at the very end. This
				resembles the same code as with the <codeph>CountDownLatch</codeph> before:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .interval(1, TimeUnit.SECONDS)
    .take(5)
    .toBlocking()
    .forEach(new Action1<Long>() {
        @Override
        public void call(Long counter) {
            System.out.println("Got: " + counter);
        }
    });]]></codeblock>

    <p>If you know that only a single value is ever returned, you can use the
					<apiname>single()</apiname> method:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[int value = Observable
    .just(1)
    .toBlocking()
    .single();]]></codeblock>

    <p>Be aware though that if more items get emitted, you get an exception:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[Exception in thread "main" java.lang.IllegalArgumentException: Sequence contains too many elements
	at rx.internal.operators.OperatorSingle$1.onNext(OperatorSingle.java:58)
	at rx.internal.operators.OnSubscribeFromIterable$IterableProducer.request(OnSubscribeFromIterable.java:76)
	at rx.Subscriber.setProducer(Subscriber.java:148)
	at rx.Subscriber.setProducer(Subscriber.java:144)
	....]]></codeblock>

	<p>The same thing happens if no value gets emitted:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[Exception in thread "main" java.util.NoSuchElementException: Sequence contains no elements
	at rx.internal.operators.OperatorSingle$1.onCompleted(OperatorSingle.java:82)
	at rx.internal.operators.OnSubscribeFromIterable$IterableProducer.request(OnSubscribeFromIterable.java:79)
	at rx.Subscriber.setProducer(Subscriber.java:148)
	at rx.Subscriber.setProducer(Subscriber.java:144)
	at rx.Subscriber.setProducer(Subscriber.java:144)
	at rx.Subscriber.setProducer(Subscriber.java:144)
	....]]></codeblock>

	<p>As an alternative, you can use singleOrDefault() so that a fallback value gets returned.</p>

	<p>You can use this technique with the Java SDK if you are loading a document and it does not exist:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[JsonDocument doc = bucket.get("id").toBlocking().singleOrDefault(null);
if (doc == null) {
    System.err.println("Document not found!");
} else {
    System.out.println(doc);
}]]></codeblock>

	<p>If you check out the API documentation of the <apiname>BlockingObservable</apiname>, you will
                discover many more possibilities, including iterators or grabbing the first and last
                values.</p>

	<p>One last thing that comes in handy with blocking calls: sometimes you want to collect all emitted values into a list. You can combine the blocking calls with the toList() operator to achieve something like this:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[List<Integer> list = Observable
    .just(1, 2, 3)
    .toList()
    .toBlocking()
    .single();

// Prints: [1, 2, 3]
System.out.println(list);]]></codeblock>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Creating Observables</title>

			<p>There are many ways to create <codeph>Observables</codeph>, and you've already seen <apiname>just()</apiname>
                and <apiname>interval()</apiname>. There are much more such  convenience methods
                available on the <codeph>Observable</codeph> class, but they all boil down to the
                    <apiname>create()</apiname> method. You can simulate the example from before
                with this:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable.create(new Observable.OnSubscribe<Integer>() {
    @Override
    public void call(Subscriber<? super Integer> subscriber) {
        try {
            if (!subscriber.isUnsubscribed()) {
                for (int i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
                    subscriber.onNext(i);
                }
                subscriber.onCompleted();
            }
        } catch (Exception ex) {
            subscriber.onError(ex);
        }
    }
}).subscribe(new Action1<Integer>() {
    @Override
    public void call(Integer integer) {
        System.out.println("Got: " + integer);
    }
});]]></codeblock>

		<p>Every time a Subscriber subscribes, the <apiname>call()</apiname> method is executed. You can
				then call <codeph>onNext</codeph>, <codeph>onComplete</codeph> and
					<codeph>onError</codeph> as you wish, but keep in mind that both
					<codeph>onComplete</codeph> and <codeph>onError</codeph> should only be called once,
				and afterward no subsequent <apiname>onNext</apiname> is allowed to follow so that the
				contract is met.</p>

		<p>You can see that no blocking call is needed because the <codeph>Observable</codeph> is completely handled on the
                current thread. In the section on schedulers, you learn more about that.</p>

		    <p><note>This example shows why it is crucial to call <apiname>subscribe()</apiname> on the <codeph>Observable</codeph>, because only such a call triggers the actual execution of the pipeline. This is a little different with subjects, which are covered later in this guide. Nevertheless, always call <apiname>subscribe()</apiname> on your observables.</note></p>

		    <p>Refer to the RxJava documentation for many more methods that you can use to create <codeph>Observables</codeph>.
                If you are dealing with the Java SDK, in most places this is done for you, but there
                are situations where it comes in handy.</p>

		    <p>The Java SDK does not expose bulk methods anymore on the API, because you can do this already with the help of <codeph>Observables</codeph>. Compare these two examples, one only loads one document, the other loads a few (you'll learn about <apiname>flatMap()</apiname> in the next section):</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// Loads one document and prints it:
bucket
    .get("doc1")
    .subscribe(new Action1<JsonDocument>() {
        @Override
        public void call(JsonDocument document) {
            System.out.println("Got: " + document);
        }
    });]]></codeblock>


<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// Loads 3 documents in parallel
Observable
    .just("doc1", "doc2", "doc3")
    .flatMap(new Func1<String, Observable<JsonDocument>>() {
        @Override
        public Observable<JsonDocument> call(String id) {
            return bucket.get(id);
        }
    }).subscribe(new Action1<JsonDocument>() {
        @Override
        public void call(JsonDocument document) {
            System.out.println("Got: " + document);
        }
    });]]></codeblock>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Transforming observables</title>

			<p>Observables can transform their values in various ways. One of the most basic ones is <apiname>map()</apiname>, which converts the incoming value into a different one. You surely like division, so here is the FizzBuzz game:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .interval(10, TimeUnit.MILLISECONDS)
    .take(20)
    .map(new Func1<Long, String>() {
        @Override
        public String call(Long input) {
            if (input % 3 == 0) {
                return "Fizz";
            } else if (input % 5 == 0) {
                return "Buzz";
            }
            return Long.toString(input);
        }
    })
    .toBlocking()
    .forEach(new Action1<String>() {
        @Override
        public void call(String s) {
            System.out.println(s);
        }
    });]]></codeblock>

    <p>The map function is used to convert the input number into a string and do some checks to satisfy the FizzBuzz game. As a more practical example, consider loading a document from the Java SDK and only extracting the first name of a user before passing it on:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[bucket
    .get("id")
    .map(new Func1<JsonDocument, String>() {
        @Override
        public String call(JsonDocument document) {
            return document.content().getString("firstname");
        }
    }).subscribe();]]></codeblock>

    <p>A variation of <apiname>map()</apiname> is called <apiname>flatMap()</apiname>, which allows
				you to do those transformations with asynchronous calls. Taking the example from above,
				we want to map from String (the document ID) to a <codeph>JsonDocument</codeph> (the
				loaded document). With a normal <apiname>map()</apiname>, call you would either need to
        block on the <codeph>Observable</codeph> or at some point deal with an
					<codeph>Observable&lt;Observable&lt;JsonDocument&gt;&gt;</codeph>.</p>

    <p>Thankfully, <apiname>flatMap()</apiname> flattens the resulting values for us and return them
				into the original flow:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// Loads 3 documents in parallel
Observable
    .just("doc1", "doc2", "doc3")
    .flatMap(new Func1<String, Observable<JsonDocument>>() {
        @Override
        public Observable<JsonDocument> call(String id) {
            return bucket.get(id);
        }
    }).subscribe(new Action1<JsonDocument>() {
        @Override
        public void call(JsonDocument document) {
            System.out.println("Got: " + document);
        }
    });]]></codeblock>

 	<p>You can see that <apiname>flatMap()</apiname> returns an Observable&lt;T&gt; whereas the normal map just returns &lt;T&gt;. You will use <apiname>flatMap()</apiname> a lot when dealing with flows like this, so keep it in mind.</p>

 	<p>Another helpful transformation is <apiname>scan()</apiname>. It applies a function to each
 	    value emitted by an <codeph>Observable</codeph>, sequentially, and emits each
                successive value. We can use it to aggregate values like this:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .just(1, 2, 3, 4, 5)
    .scan(new Func2<Integer, Integer, Integer>() {
        @Override
        public Integer call(Integer sum, Integer value) {
            return sum + value;
        }
    }).subscribe(new Action1<Integer>() {
        @Override
        public void call(Integer integer) {
            System.out.println("Sum: " + integer);
        }
    });]]></codeblock>

         <p>This prints:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[Sum: 1
Sum: 3
Sum: 6
Sum: 10
Sum: 15]]></codeblock>

		    <p>Finally, <apiname>groupBy()</apiname> comes in handy, which emits one <codeph>Observable</codeph> by each group, defined by a function. The following example emits two <codeph>Observables</codeph>, one for even and one for odd values:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .just(1, 2, 3, 4, 5)
    .groupBy(new Func1<Integer, Boolean>() {
        @Override
        public Boolean call(Integer integer) {
            return integer % 2 == 0;
        }
    }).subscribe(new Action1<GroupedObservable<Boolean, Integer>>() {
        @Override
        public void call(GroupedObservable<Boolean, Integer> grouped) {
            grouped.toList().subscribe(new Action1<List<Integer>>() {
                @Override
                public void call(List<Integer> integers) {
                    System.out.println(integers + " (Even: " + grouped.getKey() + ")");
                }
            });
        }
    });]]></codeblock>

   <p>The example prints:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[[1, 3, 5] (Even: false)
[2, 4] (Even: true)]]></codeblock>

	<p>Combined with the Java SDK, this technique can be used to separate returned Documents based on their content. The following example uses a view to load all documents from the <codeph>beer-sample</codeph> bucket, groups them by type and counts the number of occurrences:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[bucket
    .query(ViewQuery.from("my_design_doc", "my_view"))
    .flatMap(ViewResult::rows)
    .flatMap(ViewRow::document)
    .groupBy(document -> document.content().getString("type"))
    .subscribe(observable ->
        observable.count().subscribe(integer ->
            System.out.println(observable.getKey() + ": " + integer)
        )
    );]]></codeblock>

		    <p>This code queries the view, extracts all rows, loads the full document for each row, groups it by the <codeph>type</codeph> property in the JSON document and then uses the <apiname>count()</apiname> operator to count the number of rows emitted by each <codeph>Observable</codeph>. This prints something like the following:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[brewery: 1412
beer: 5891]]></codeblock>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Filtering observables</title>

			<p>In addition to transforming observables, you can also filter them. Filtering doesn't change the emitted values itself, but rather how much and at which point (and if at all) they are emitted.</p>

			<p>For example, you can filter based on some criteria:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// This will only let 3 and 4 pass.
Observable
    .just(1, 2, 3, 4)
    .filter(new Func1<Integer, Boolean>() {
        @Override
        public Boolean call(Integer integer) {
            return integer > 2;
        }
    }).subscribe();]]></codeblock>

			<p>Or take only the first N values emitted and then unsubscribe:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// Only 1 and 2 will pass.
Observable
    .just(1, 2, 3, 4)
    .take(2)
    .subscribe();]]></codeblock>

			<p>Or use only the first or last value emitted:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// Only 1 will pass
Observable
    .just(1, 2, 3, 4)
    .first()
    .subscribe();]]></codeblock>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// Only 4 will pass
Observable
    .just(1, 2, 3, 4)
    .last()
    .subscribe();]]></codeblock>

			<p>Finally, you can use distinct() to suppress duplicate values:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// 1, 2, 3, 4 will be emitted
Observable
    .just(1, 2, 1, 3, 4, 2)
    .distinct()
    .subscribe();]]></codeblock>

    <p><note><apiname>distinct()</apiname> also allows you to pass in a function that returns the key to select by. You can use this, for example, to separate out duplicate <codeph>JsonDocument</codeph> objects.</note></p>
		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Combining observables</title>

		    <p>Multiple <codeph>Observables</codeph> can also be merged to form a combined one. Depending on how you want those to be merged, there are different operators available. Two of the most used ones are <apiname>merge()</apiname> and <apiname>zip()</apiname> which are covered here.</p>

			<p><apiname>Merge</apiname> only merges all emitted values by the source
			    <codeph>Observables</codeph> in the order they arrive:</p>
<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .merge(evens, odds)
    .subscribe(new Action1<Integer>() {
        @Override
        public void call(Integer integer) {
            System.out.println(integer);
        }
    });]]></codeblock>

    	<p>The example prints something similar to the following:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[2
4
6
8
10
1
3
5
7
9]]></codeblock>

		<p>With the zip operator, you can combine two streams in the strictly same order, defined by a function:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable<Integer> evens = Observable.just(2, 4, 6, 8, 10);
Observable<Integer> odds = Observable.just(1, 3, 5, 7, 9);

Observable
    .zip(evens, odds, (v1, v2) -> v1 + " + " + v2 + " is: " + (v1 + v2))
    .subscribe(System.out::println);]]></codeblock>

    	<p>This zips the pairs together in order and prints:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[2 + 1 is: 3
4 + 3 is: 7
6 + 5 is: 11
8 + 7 is: 15
10 + 9 is: 19]]></codeblock>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Error handling</title>

		    <p>Error handling is a vital component of every real world application and needs to be considered from the start. RxJava provides sophisticated mechanisms to deal with errors that happen inevitably in your <codeph>Observable</codeph> flows.</p>

			<p>In general, you want to react in the following ways:</p>

			<ul>
				<li>Return a default value instead.</li>
			    <li>Flip over to a backup <codeph>Observable</codeph>.</li>
			    <li>Retry the <codeph>Observable</codeph> (immediately or with backoff).</li>
			</ul>

			<p>Returning a default value is a good idea if you cannot afford to retry or you just don't care
                (maybe because the flow is not crucial to your data flow). The following code throws
                an exception at the first emitted item, but falls back to a default value:</p>

			<p>Note that you can pass in a function that also takes the exception, so you can return
                different values for different exception types or use it for logging purposes.</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// Prints:
// Default
// Oops: I don't like: Apples
Observable
    .just("Apples", "Bananas")
    .doOnNext(s -> {
        throw new RuntimeException("I don't like: " + s);
    })
    .onErrorReturn(throwable -> {
        System.err.println("Oops: " + throwable.getMessage());
        return "Default";
    }).subscribe(System.out::println);]]></codeblock>

		    <p>You can also flip to a backup <codeph>Observable</codeph> that will be called if the first one fails. The
                Java SDK has a<apiname> getFromReplica()</apiname> command that  allows you to read
                stale data from its replicas and treat availability for consistency on reads. You
                can use this approach to fall back:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[bucket
    .get("id")
    .onErrorResumeNext(bucket.getFromReplica("id", ReplicaMode.ALL))
    .subscribe();]]></codeblock>

		    <p>Normally you want to have more control on which <codeph>Observable</codeph> should be run next depending on
				the type of error. The following example will only go to the replica if a
					<codeph>TimeoutException</codeph> happened (if not the error is passed down):</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[bucket
    .get("id")
    .timeout(500, TimeUnit.MILLISECONDS)
    .onErrorResumeNext(new Func1<Throwable, Observable<? extends JsonDocument>>() {
        @Override
        public Observable<? extends JsonDocument> call(Throwable throwable) {
            if (throwable instanceof TimeoutException) {
                return bucket.getFromReplica("id", ReplicaMode.ALL);
            }
            return Observable.error(throwable);
        }
    });]]></codeblock>

		    <p>Finally, it is possible to retry the <codeph>Observable</codeph> by resubscribing. This can be done as quickly as possible, or with a backoff interval, which is preferred when external resources are involved.</p>

    	<p>The following program desperately tries to read the numbers from 1 to 10, but a (not so hidden) flaw makes it randomly throw an exception. If that happens, the code retries. Since lots of values might be already emitted, we can use <apiname>distinct()</apiname> to filter those out.</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .just(1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10)
    .doOnNext(integer -> {
        if (new Random().nextInt(10) + 1 == 5) {
            throw new RuntimeException("Boo!");
        }
    })
    .retry()
    .distinct()
    .subscribe(System.out::println);]]></codeblock>

    	<p><note>If you only want to retry for a max amount, replace the <apiname>retry()</apiname> with a <apiname>retry(count)</apiname> call.</note></p>

    	<p>If you want to retry with backoff, you can use a technique like this:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .range(1, 10)
    .doOnNext(integer -> {
        if (new Random().nextInt(10) + 1 == 5) {
            throw new RuntimeException("Boo!");
        }
    })
    .retryWhen(attempts ->
        attempts.zipWith(Observable.range(1, 3), (n, i) -> i)
        .flatMap(i -> {
            System.out.println("delay retry by " + i + " second(s)");
            return Observable.timer(i, TimeUnit.SECONDS);
        }))
    .distinct()
    .subscribe(System.out::println);]]></codeblock>

    <p>The attempts get passed into the <apiname>retryWhen()</apiname> method and zipped with the number of seconds to wait. The timer method is used to complete once its timer is done. If you run this code a few times to generate an exception (or more), you will see something similar to this:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[1
2
3
4
delay retry by 1 second(s)
delay retry by 2 second(s)
5
6
7
8
9
10]]></codeblock>

<p>Since Java SDK 2.1.2 the advanced <codeph>retryWhen</codeph> is easier to write using the
                    <codeph>RetryBuilder</codeph> helper class. These can be used to specify a
                filter on which kind of <codeph>Exception</codeph> to retry, for how many attempts,
                with any <codeph>Delay</codeph>.</p>
<codeblock><![CDATA[
Observable
    .range(1, 10)
    .doOnNext(integer -> {
         if (new Random().nextInt(10) + 1 == 5) {
             throw new RuntimeException("Boo!");
         }
    })
    .retryWhen(
         RetryBuilder
             .anyOf(RuntimeException.class)
             .delay(Delay.exponential(TimeUnit.MILLISECONDS, 100))
             .max(5)
             .build())
    .distinct()
    .subscribe(System.out::println);
]]></codeblock>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Schedulers and threads</title>

			<p>Schedulers in RxJava are used to manage and control concurrency. Some operators implicitly use
				one or allow you to pass in a custom one.</p>

			<p>RxJava ships with a bunch of preconfigured Schedulers by default, which are all accessible through the Schedulers class:</p>

			<ul>
				<li><apiname>Schedulers.computation()</apiname>: Event-loop style scheduler for purely computational work.</li>
		        <li><apiname>Schedulers.immediate()</apiname>: Executes the work immediately on the current thread.</li>
		        <li><apiname>Schedulers.io()</apiname>: Executes work on an Executor-backed pool that
                    grows as needed.</li>
		        <li><apiname>Schedulers.newThread()</apiname>: Creates a new thread for each unit of work.</li>
		        <li><apiname>Schedulers.trampoline()</apiname>: Queues the work on the current thread and gets executed after the current work completes.</li>
		        <li><apiname>Schedulers.test()</apiname>: Test the <codeph>scheduler</codeph> used for
                    testing and debugging, which allows manual advancing of the clock.</li>
			</ul>

			<p>As a rule of thumb, the computation <codeph>scheduler</codeph> should always be used for
                in-memory processing, while the I/O scheduler should only be used for blocking-style
                I/O operations (so do not use it together with the Java SDK because it is
                asynchronous anyway).</p>

			<p>You can instruct an <codeph>observable</codeph> to be executed on such a
                    <codeph>scheduler</codeph> in the following ways:</p>

			<ul>
				<li>Implicitly by using an operator that makes use of one</li>
				<li>Explicitly by passing the Scheduler to such an operator</li>
				<li>By using <apiname>subscribeOn(Scheduler)</apiname></li>
				<li>By using <apiname>observeOn(Scheduler)</apiname></li>
			</ul>

			<p>Operators like <codeph>buffer</codeph>, <codeph>replay</codeph>, <codeph>skip</codeph>,
                    <codeph>delay</codeph>, <codeph>parallel</codeph> and so on use a
                    <codeph>scheduler</codeph> by default if not instructed otherwise. A list of
                default <codeph>schedulers</codeph> can be found <xref
                    href="https://github.com/ReactiveX/RxJava/wiki/Scheduler#default-schedulers-for-rxjava-observable-operators"
                    format="html" scope="external">here</xref>.</p>

			<p>As a rule of thumb, all of those operators allow you to pass in a custom
                    <codeph>scheduler</codeph> if needed, but most of the time sticking with the
                defaults is a good idea.</p>

			<p><note>The Java SDK uses an <term>internal scheduler</term> similar to the <term>computation
                        scheduler</term> to proper isolate the inner mechanisms from user-land. It
                    is possible to change that <codeph>scheduler</codeph> through the environment,
                    but it is not recommended.</note></p>

			<p>If you want the whole subscribe chain to be executed on a specific <codeph>scheduler</codeph>,
                you use the <apiname>subscribeOn()</apiname> operator. Without a scheduler set, the
                following code executes on the main thread:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .range(1, 5)
    .map(integer -> {
        System.out.println("Map: (" + Thread.currentThread().getName() + ")");
        return integer + 2;
    })
    .subscribe(integer ->
        System.out.println("Got: " + integer + " (" + Thread.currentThread().getName() + ")")
    );]]></codeblock>

            <p>The example prints:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[Map: (main)
Got: 3 (main)
Map: (main)
Got: 4 (main)
Map: (main)
Got: 5 (main)
Map: (main)
Got: 6 (main)
Map: (main)
Got: 7 (main)]]></codeblock>

		<p>This example shows the <apiname>subscribeOn()</apiname> method added to the flow (it doesn't
				matter where you add it):</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .range(1, 5)
    .map(integer -> {
        System.out.println("Map: (" + Thread.currentThread().getName() + ")");
        return integer + 2;
    })
    .subscribeOn(Schedulers.computation())
    .subscribe(integer ->
            System.out.println("Got: " + integer + " (" + Thread.currentThread().getName() + ")")
    );]]></codeblock>

        <p>In the output of the example that uses <apiname>subscribeOn()</apiname>, you can see it
				is executed on the same thread, but on the computation thread pool:</p>

<codeblock ><![CDATA[Map: (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Got: 3 (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Map: (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Got: 4 (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Map: (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Got: 5 (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Map: (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Got: 6 (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Map: (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Got: 7 (RxComputationThreadPool-6)]]></codeblock>

		<p>If you need tighter control regarding which parts are executed on what pool, use
					<apiname>observeOn()</apiname>. Here, the order matters:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable
    .range(1, 5)
    .map(integer -> {
        System.out.println("Map: (" + Thread.currentThread().getName() + ")");
        return integer + 2;
    })
    .observeOn(Schedulers.computation())
    .subscribe(integer ->
            System.out.println("Got: " + integer + " (" + Thread.currentThread().getName() + ")")
    );]]></codeblock>

       <p>Everything before the <apiname>observeOn()</apiname> call is executed in
					<codeph>main</codeph>, everything below in the scheduler:</p>

<codeblock><![CDATA[Map: (main)
Map: (main)
Map: (main)
Got: 3 (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Got: 4 (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Got: 5 (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Map: (main)
Map: (main)
Got: 6 (RxComputationThreadPool-6)
Got: 7 (RxComputationThreadPool-6)]]></codeblock>

		<p>There is also a way to use <codeph>schedulers</codeph> directly to schedule operations. For
                more information about <codeph>schedulers</codeph>, refer to the RxJava
                documentation about <xref
                    href="https://github.com/ReactiveX/RxJava/wiki/Scheduler#default-schedulers-for-rxjava-observable-operators"
                    format="html" scope="external">schedulers</xref>. </p>
		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Subjects</title>

		    <p>A <term>subject</term> is a hybrid between an <codeph>Observable</codeph> and a
                    <codeph>subscriber</codeph>. It can both receive and emit events. Most of the
                time you don't need <codeph>subjects</codeph> and can handle everything fine through
                    <codeph>Observables</codeph> alone, but there are certain cases when they come
                in handy.</p>

		    <p>There is a distinction between different <codeph>Observables</codeph> that have not been covered yet:</p>

			<ul>
				<li>A <term>cold Observable</term> waits for a subscription until it emits values and does this freshly for every subscriber.</li>
				<li>A <term>hot bservable</term> begins emitting values upfront and presents them to every
                    subscriber subsequently. <codeph>Subjects</codeph> are <codeph>hot
                        Observables</codeph>.</li>
			</ul>

			<p><note>Because of the network layer in between, the Java SDK needs to use subjects for its request
                    and response cycles. This also makes sense because if you subscribe twice to a
                        <apiname>bucket.get()</apiname> call, you only want one network call instead
                    of two.</note></p>

			<p>Currently, these subjects are supported by RxJava, slightly differing in their functionality:</p>

			<ul>
				<li><codeph>AsyncSubject</codeph>: Emits the last value (and only the last value) emitted by the
				    source <codeph>Observable</codeph>, and only after that source
				    <codeph>Observable</codeph> completes. If the source <codeph>Observable</codeph> does not
                    emit any values, the AsyncSubject also completes without emitting any
                    values.</li>
				<li><codeph>BehaviorSubject</codeph>: When a <codeph>subscriber</codeph> subscribes to a
                        <codeph>BehaviorSubject</codeph>, it begins by emitting the item most
                    recently emitted by the source <codeph>Observable</codeph> or an optional seed
                    or default value if none has yet been emitted. Then it continues to emit any
                    other items emitted later by the source <codeph>Observables</codeph>.</li>
				<li><codeph>PublishSubject:</codeph>
					<codeph>PublishSubject</codeph> emits to a subscriber only those items that are
				    emitted by the source <codeph>Observables</codeph>s subsequent to the time of the subscription.</li>
				<li><codeph>ReplaySubject</codeph>: <codeph>ReplaySubject</codeph> emits to any subscriber all
                    of the items that were emitted by the source <codeph>Observables</codeph>,
                    regardless of when the <codeph>subscriber</codeph> subscribes.</li>
			</ul>

			<p>As an example: if you call <apiname>bucket.get()</apiname>, an <codeph>AsyncSubject</codeph>
				is created under the covers and returned to you immediately. In addition, it is passed
				down the I/O layer and stored. When a response arrives from the server, the subject is
				fed with the response and you get notified appropriately.</p>

			<p>If you need to use a subject, choose which one to use wisely in order to keep resource usage
                low (some of them cache data for subscribers) especially if you push lots of data
                through them. You can read more about them here:
                https://github.com/ReactiveX/RxJava/wiki/Subject</p>

			<p>There is one last thing you need to know when dealing with subjects: because you are not getting new values when resubscribing (because it's cached), the following won't work (doing a get call every second):</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[bucket
    .get("id")
    .delay(1, TimeUnit.SECONDS)
    .repeat()
    .subscribe();]]></codeblock>

		    <p>This will only execute one get call, because subsequent attempts only load the cached value. For this reason <apiname>Observable.defer()</apiname> was added, which creates a new <codeph>Observable</codeph> for every subscriber that comes along:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Observable.defer(new Func0<Observable<JsonDocument>>() {
    @Override
    public Observable<JsonDocument> call() {
        return bucket.get("id");
    }
})
.delay(1, TimeUnit.SECONDS)
.repeat()
.subscribe();]]></codeblock>

		</section>

	</conbody>
</concept>
