<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept2677">
	<title>Working with N1QL</title>
	<shortdesc>The Java SDK offers advanced support for querying JSON documents using N1QL (aka "SQL for Documents"). N1QL is a superset of SQL.</shortdesc>
	<conbody>
		<p>To learn more about N1QL itself and Query support in Couchbase Server, see <xref href="http://query.couchbase.com/" format="html" scope="external">the Query Documentation</xref>.</p>

		<section><title>Statements: the DSL vs. ad-hoc querying</title>
			<p>The N1QL domain-specific language (DSL) is a powerful way to guide you in building
				your statements: you get type safety and autocompletion of relevant methods / N1QL
				clauses.</p>
			<p>As of the <codeph>2.2</codeph> version of the SDK, the DSL supports the following features:
			 <ul>
				 <li>Data selection with <codeph>Select.select(...)</codeph> as an entry point (including index hinting)</li>
				 <li>All N1QL functions, organized by topic in the helper classes in the 
				 	<codeph>com.couchbase.client.java.query.dsl.functions</codeph> package (eg. <codeph>AggregateFunctions</codeph>)</li>
				 <li>A mini DSL for building CASE constructs via factory methods on the <codeph>Case</codeph> class</li>
				 <li>A mini DSL for building collection constructs (ANY, EVERY, ARRAY...) 
				 	via factory methods on the  <codeph>Collections</codeph> class</li>
				 <li>Index management (index and primary index creation/deletion/deferred building) with <codeph>Index</codeph> 
				 	factory methods as an entry point</li>
			 </ul>
			</p>
			<p>To construct statements, you can use the <apiname>Expression</apiname> class that
				comes in with a variety of factory methods to construct both tokens and literals
				programmatically. Expressions can be combined and chained with operators (like
					<codeph>gte</codeph> for "greater than or equal to" comparison...). </p>
			<p>Use <apiname>x</apiname> to construct a token, <apiname>s</apiname> to construct a
				string literal, <apiname>i</apiname> to construct a token escaped with backticks (for
				instance the bucket name <codeph>beer-sample</codeph> must be escaped because it
				contains a dash). </p>
			<p>Additionally, if you find the DSL doesn't support a particular statement, clause or
				keyword, <b>you can always revert to providing your statement in plain String form</b>.
				This ensures that even if the DSL somehow lags behind the evolutions of the language,
				users will always have a mean of using new language features. </p>

		</section>

		<section><title>Querying</title>

		<p>All queries are composed at a minimum of a statement and optionally of N1QL additional
				parameters. The simplest form of query is just a raw string statement, or a DSL
				statement:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[// raw string query
N1qlQueryResult queryResult =
   bucket.query(N1qlQuery.simple("SELECT * FROM beer-sample LIMIT 10"));

// using the DSL
N1qlQueryResult query = bucket.query(select("*").from("beer-sample").limit(10));]]></codeblock>

		<p>The DSL provides a type-safe and intuitive way to perform queries. The
				<apiname>select()</apiname> method is a static import that kicks off a  BNF-aware DSL
			for N1QL. (BNF stands for Backus-Naur Form.) </p>

		<p>The query always returns a <apiname>N1qlQueryResult</apiname>, which aside from the actual
			<apiname>N1qlQueryRow</apiname>s also contains debug or error information if supplied.</p>

		<p><ul>
			<li><codeph>parseSuccess</codeph>: Returns true if the query could correctly be parsed.
						This information is available immediately even if the actual list of results takes
						more time to be computed and streamed to the client.</li>
			<li><codeph>finalSuccess</codeph>: Returns true if the whole query could be executed
						successfully, including retrieving all the results and streaming them to the
						client.</li>
			<li><codeph>allRows</codeph>: Contains all rows returned by the query, can be an empty list.</li>
			<li><codeph>rows</codeph>: Same as <codeph>allRows</codeph> but in an iterator form (the
							<apiname>N1qlQueryResult</apiname> itself is iterable).</li>
			<li><codeph>requestId</codeph>: The server-generated unique ID for this query (useful to find associated logs
				on the N1QL server).</li>
			<li><codeph>clientContextId</codeph>: User-provided identifier reflected in the server's response.
						This can be useful to group several queries (for example, in a kind of in-house
						transaction) and find all associated queries.</li>
			<li><codeph>info</codeph>: Returns a <apiname>N1qlMetrics</apiname> object containing metrics for the
						query (like number of results or processing time).</li>
			<li><codeph>errors</codeph>: Returns a list of <apiname>JsonObject</apiname> describing errors or warnings
					(if any occurred during execution).</li>
		</ul></p></section>

		<section><title>Querying Asynchronously</title>
			<p>Querying asynchronously is done through the <apiname>AsyncBucket</apiname> interface, obtained
				by calling <apiname>bucket.async()</apiname>. The API is pretty similar except everything is
				returned as an <apiname>Observable</apiname>. Some of the components of the query result (an
				<apiname>AsyncQueryResult</apiname>) can also be delayed and so returned as Observables. Only
				<apiname>requestId</apiname>, <apiname>clientContextId</apiname> and <apiname>parseSuccess</apiname>
				return immediately.</p>
			<p>The following Java 8 code prints the found documents or errors as they come:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[bucket.async()
.query(select("*").from("beer-sample").limit(10))
.subscribe(result -> {
	result.errors()
		.subscribe(
			e -> System.err.println("N1QL Error/Warning: " + e),
			runtimeError -> runtimeError.printStackTrace()
		);
	result.rows()
		.map(row -> row.value())
		.subscribe(
			rowContent -> System.out.println(rowContent),
			runtimeError -> runtimeError.printStackTrace()
		)
	}
);]]></codeblock>
		<p>First, we see that we work on asynchronous mode. Second line issues a <apiname>Statement</apiname>
			using the DSL. Then we subscribe a first time to trigger the query and obtain the result.</p>
		<p>On receiving the result (there will be only one), we subscribe to its components to be notified
			respectively of n1ql errors and n1ql results. Results (as rows) are first mapped into their
			JSON values.</p>
		<p>Notice we also define an <apiname>onError</apiname> behavior for both n1ql errors stream and results
			stream, that just prints the stack trace.</p>
		<p><i>Note: All this is done asynchronously so it's not suitable for a simple test (where the main
			thread would exit potentially before any result could have been displayed)</i></p>
		</section>

		<section><title>Different Kinds of Queries</title>
		<p>Queries are represented by the <apiname>N1qlQuery</apiname> interface, which also provides factory
			methods to create all variants of queries. Each variant can be constructed from a <apiname>
			Statement</apiname>, even in <codeph>String</codeph> form, but also additionally can define
			a <apiname>N1qlParams</apiname>. This represents additional N1QL parameters, like setting a
			<codeph>clientContextId</codeph>.</p>
		<p>Variants of queries are:
				<ul>
					<li><b>simple</b>: The basic query used so far in this tutorial.</li>
					<li><b>parameterized</b>: A variant to use with statements containing
						placeholders (like <apiname>$1</apiname> or <apiname>$placeholder</apiname>). The
						user must provide the values for the placeholders as well, either as a
							<apiname>JsonArray</apiname> (for positional parameters) or
							<apiname>JsonObject</apiname> (for named parameters).</li>
					</ul>
		</p>
		</section>
		<section><title>Read Your Own Writes (RYOW)</title>
		<p>Often you will want to insert or update some data into Couchbase and immediately read
				this data back using a N1QL query. This is referred to as read your own write
				(RYOW).</p>
		<p>This can be achieved by using the <codeph>N1qlParams</codeph>, and more precisely the <codeph>consistency</codeph> parameter:</p>

<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[
JsonDocument doc = JsonDocument.create("test", JsonObject.create().put("test", true));
bucket.insert(doc);

Statement select = select("*").from("beer-sample")
	.where(x("test").eq(true));
N1qlParams ryow = N1qlParams.build().consistency(ScanConsistency.REQUEST_PLUS);

bucket.async()
	.query(N1qlQuery.simple(select, ryow))
	.subscribe(result -> {
	result.errors()
		.subscribe(
			e -> System.err.println("N1QL Error/Warning: " + e),
			runtimeError -> runtimeError.printStackTrace()
		);
	result.rows()
		.map(row -> row.value())
		.subscribe(
			rowContent -> System.out.println(rowContent),
			runtimeError -> runtimeError.printStackTrace()
		);
	}
);]]></codeblock>
	</section>

		<section>
			<title>Adhoc Queries vs Frequent Queries</title>
			<p>
				When you often execute a <codeph>N1qlQuery</codeph> it can be interesting to let the SDK and the query engine attempt additional optimizations.
			</p>
			<p>
				By default, a <codeph>N1qlQuery</codeph> will be considered "ad hoc" (no additional optimization is done). By calling <codeph>.adhoc(false)</codeph> on your query you can mark it for further optimization by the SDK and the query engine. It will be prepared on the server and all subsequent invocations of this query will benefit from the prepared execution plan.
			</p>
			<note type="tip">
				Other <codeph>N1qlQuery</codeph> instances with the <b>same statement</b> (but different placeholder values for example) will also benefit from the optimization, as long as they are marked as <codeph>adhoc(false)</codeph>.
			</note>
			<p>
				The SDK will retry to prepare a plan once if the server is unable to execute the cached plan. It will cache plans for up to 5000 statements locally.
			</p>
		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Managing Indexes</title>
			<p>
				For N1QL to work, you must first ensure that at least a <codeph>Primary Index</codeph> has been created. For that you can use the DSL from the <codeph>Index</codeph> class:
			</p>
<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Index.createPrimaryIndex().on(bucket.name())]]></codeblock>
			<p>
				The fluent API will guide you with the available options, you just have to declare that you want to <codeph>createPrimaryIndex()</codeph> and specify <codeph>on(...)</codeph> which Bucket.
			</p>
			<p>
				You can also create secondary indexes on specific fields of the JSON, for better performance:
			</p>
<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Index.createIndex(name).on(bucket.name(), x("field1"), x("field2")))]]></codeblock>
			<p>
				In this case, give a name to your index, specify the target bucket AND the field(s) in the JSON to index.
			</p>
			<note type="tip">
				The SDK will escape bucket name and index name.
			</note>
			<p>
				With the DSL you can also indicate that you want to declare multiple indexes before building them. Use the <codeph>withDefer()</codeph> option for that. Once all your indexes have been declared, trigger the build by using the <codeph>Index.buildIndex</codeph> API:
			</p>
<codeblock outputclass="language-java"><![CDATA[Index.buildIndex().on("default").indexes("secondaryA", "secondaryB");]]></codeblock>
			<p>
				Finally, if you want to remove indexes you can use the <codeph>Index.dropIndex(...)</codeph> or <codeph>Index.dropPrimaryIndex(...)</codeph> APIs.
			</p>
			<note type="tip">
				You can do a static import of the methods on <codeph>Index</codeph> to use them in an even more fluent manner.
			</note>
		</section>
	</conbody>
</concept>
