<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="elastic-release-notes">
	<title>Release Notes</title>
	<body>

		<p>The Couchbase plug-in for Elasticsearch integrates Couchbase Server and Elasticsearch, a
			full-text search engine, by streaming data in real-time from Couchbase to Elasticsearch.
			The combined solution enables you to build richer and more powerful apps with full-text
			search, indexing and querying and real-time analytics for variety of use cases such as a
			content store or aggregation of data from different data sources.</p>

		<section>
			<title>Elasticsearch Plug-in 2.1.1 (September 2015)</title>

			<p>This release note applies to the 2.1.1 version of the Elasticsearch transport-couchbase
				plug-in. It adds compatibility with newer Elasticsearch versions up to 1.7.x,
				multiple new features, and quite a few bug fixes, including several that solve
				issues found in 2.1.0. In particular, this release fixes a long-standing bug with an
				incorrect concurrent bulk request counter, which could eventually cause the plug-in
				to stop accepting requests from Couchbase Server altogether. </p>
			<p>Some of the configuration option names have changed. For information about the option
				names, see <xref href="adv-usage.dita#elastic-advanced" />.</p>
			<p>
				<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_ktv_l1x_ht">
					<title>Version Compatability</title>
					<tgroup cols="3">
						<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
						<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
						<colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.0*"/>
						<thead>
							<row>
								<entry>Elasticsearch plug-in version</entry>
								<entry>Couchbase versions</entry>
								<entry>Elasticsearch versions</entry>
							</row>
						</thead>
						<tbody>
							<row>
								<entry>2.1.1</entry>
								<entry>3.x, 2.5.x</entry>
								<entry>1.3.0 - 1.7.x</entry>
							</row>
						</tbody>
					</tgroup>
				</table>
			</p>
			
		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Elasticsearch Plug-in 2.0</title>
			<p>This release note is for the Elasticsearch plug-in release 2.0 GA (October 2014).
				Elasticsearch plug-in version 2.0 is compatible with: <ul>
					<li>Elasticsearch 1.3.0.</li>
					<li>Couchbase Server 3.0</li>
					<li>Couchbase Server 2.5.x (backward compatible)</li>
				</ul></p>

			<p>The new feature(s) available in Elasticsearch Plugin v2.0: <ul>
					<li>Support more than one document type in Elasticsearch. (<xref
							href="https://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-12284" scope="external"
							format="html">MB-12284</xref>) <p>For more information, see <xref
								href="adv-usage.dita"/>
						</p></li>
				</ul></p>

			<p>The following are known issues:</p>
			<ul>
				<li>The <codeph>att_reason</codeph> value for non-JSON documents changed from non-JSON
					mode to invalid_json. If a Couchbase cluster has a lot of deletes, the Elasticsearch
					log could fill up with a lot of messages. (<xref
						href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/CBES-31" scope="external"
						format="html">CBES-31</xref>)</li>
			</ul>

		</section>


		<section>
			<title>Elasticsearch Plug-in 1.3.0</title>
			<p>This release note is for the Elasticsearch plug-in release 1.3.0 GA (April 2014). This
				release is compatible only with Elasticsearch 1.0.1.</p>
			<p>This release is compatible with Couchbase Server 2.5.x, and it is backward compatible
				with earlier 2.x releases. </p>
			<ul>
				<li>Support for new XDCR checkpoint protocol. (<xref
						href="https://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/CBES-26" scope="external"
						format="html">CBES-26</xref>)</li>
				<li>Fixed failure handling due to bounded queue with Elasticsearch 1.x. (<xref
						href="https://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/CBES-27" scope="external"
						format="html">CBES-27</xref>)</li>
			</ul>
		</section>


		<section>
			<title>Elasticsearch Plug-in 1.2.0</title>
			<p>This release note is for the Elasticsearch plug-in release 1.2.0 GA (October 2013). This
				release adds compatibility with Elasticsearch 0.90.5.</p>
			<p>This release is compatible with Couchbase Server 2.2, and it is backward compatible with
				earlier 2.x releases.</p>
		</section>


		<section>
			<title>Elasticsearch Plug-in 1.1.0</title>
			<p>This release note is for the Elasticsearch plug-in release 1.1.0 GA (August 2013). This
				release adds compatibility with Elasticsearch 0.90.2.</p>
		</section>


		<section>
			<title>Elasticsearch Plug-in 1.0.0</title>
			<p>This release note is for the Elasticsearch plug-in release 1.0.0 GA (February 2013).
				This is the first general availability (GA) release. It contains the following
				enhancements and bug fixes:</p>
			<ul>
				<li>Now compatible with version 0.20.2 of Elasticsearch.</li>
				<li>Now supports document expiration using Elasticsearch TTL.</li>
				<li>Now supports XDCR conflict resolution to reduce bandwidth usage in some cases.</li>
				<li>Fixed Couchbase index template to allow searching on the document metadata.</li>
				<li>Fixed data corruption under high load. (<xref
						href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/CBES-11" scope="external"
						format="html">CBES-11</xref>)</li>
				<li>Fixed recognition of non-JSON documents. (<xref
						href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/CBES-11" scope="external"
						format="html">CBES-11</xref>)</li>
				<li>Improved log information when indexing stub documents.</li>
			</ul>
		</section>


		<section>
			<title>Elasticsearch Plug-in 1.0.0 Beta</title>
			<p>This is the beta release of the Couchbase plug-in for Elasticsearch 1.0.0 Beta (February
				2013).</p>



		</section>
	</body>

</topic>
