<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2305">
 <title>Updating configurations</title>
 <body>
  <p>After installation you are now ready to transfer data from Couchbase Server to Elasticsearch
   and begin indexing the data. In Elasticsearch you will create an index template to define the
   scope of indexing and searching. In Couchbase Server, you will change the default setting for
   replication so that the timing and performance will work with Elasticsearch clusters.</p>
  <ol>
   <li>We need to provide an index template that Elasticsearch will use on information from
    Couchbase. The one we use below is an example provided as part of the Couchbase Plug-in for
      Elasticsearch:<p><codeph> shell&gt; curl -X PUT http://localhost:9200/_template/couchbase \ -d
      @plugins/transport-couchbase/couchbase_template.json </codeph></p><p>You can also provide your
     own index template in the future. If you provide more than one template, you can maintain
     multiple indexes that can be individually updated. Upon success, Elasticsearch
      returns:</p><p><codeph> {"ok":true,"acknowledged":true} </codeph></p></li>
   <li>For each Couchbase data bucket that we want to search, we create an empty index in
      Elasticsearch:<p><codeph> shell&gt; curl -X PUT http://localhost:9200/beer-sample
     </codeph></p><p>In this case we name our index <codeph>beer-sample</codeph>. Upon success
     Elasticsearch returns the following:</p><p><codeph> {"ok":true,"acknowledged":true}
     </codeph></p></li>
   <li>Provide this setting to Elasticsearch to change the number of concurrent requests it will
      handle:<p><codeph> shell&gt;echo "couchbase.maxConcurrentRequests: 1024" &gt;&gt;
      config/elasticsearch.yml </codeph></p></li>
   <li>Stop and restart Elasticsearch for your changes to take effect.</li>
   <li>Change the number of concurrent replicators in Couchbase Server to 8:<p><codeph> shell&gt;
      curl -X POST -u Administrator:password1 \ http://10.4.2.4:8091/internalSettings \ -d
      xdcrMaxConcurrentReps=8 </codeph></p><p>When Couchbase Server successfully updates this
     setting, it will send a response as follows:</p><p><codeph> HTTP/1.1 200 OK Server: Couchbase
      Server 3.0.0-1209-rel Pragma: no-cache Date: Wed, 28 Nov 2012 18:20:22 GMT Content-Type:
      application/json Content-Length: 188 Cache-Control: no-cache </codeph></p><p>One of the issues
     that can occur when an Elasticsearch node is overwhelmed by replication from Couchbase is that
     the node can fail. If this does occur, you may also experience errors from remaining
    nodes.</p></li>
  </ol>
 </body>
 <related-links>
  <linklist>
   <link
    href="http://docs.couchbase.com/couchbase-manual-2.5/cb-rest-api/"
    scope="external" format="html">
    <linktext>Couchbase Server Manual, Changing Internal XDCR Settings</linktext>
   </link>
  </linklist>
 </related-links>
</topic>
