<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="sv-queries-bbox">
 <title>Bounding Box Queries</title>
 <shortdesc>Bounding box queries are implemented via HTTP method and URI.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
     <note type="note">Use of the bounding box parameter is discouraged. Use the
				<codeph>start_range</codeph> and <codeph>end_range</codeph> parameters instead. Every
			bounding box can be expressed with <codeph>start_range</codeph> and
				<codeph>end_range</codeph> parameters.</note>
  
  <p>If a bounding box is not supplied, the full data set is returned. When querying a spatial
			index, use the bounding box to specify the boundaries of the query lookup on a given value.
			The specification should be in the form of a comma-separated list of the coordinates to use
			during the query.</p>
  
  <p>These coordinates are specified as in the GeoJSON specification, so the first
    two numbers are the lower left coordinates, and the last two numbers are the upper
    right coordinates.</p>

     <p>A bounding box can be expressed as with <codeph>start_range</codeph> and <codeph>end_range</codeph> parameters. Example:</p>
   <codeblock>bbox=0,0,180,90</codeblock>
   <codeblock>start_range=[0,0]&amp;end_range[180,90]</codeblock>

  <section><title>Syntax</title>
  
   <codeblock>GET http://[localhost]:8092/places/_design/[design-doc]/_spatial/points?bbox=-180,-90,0,0
Content-Type: application/json
   </codeblock>
  </section>
 
  
  <section><title>Example</title>
   <p>HTTP request example:</p>
   <codeblock>GET http://127.0.0.1:8092/places/_design/main/_spatial/points?bbox=-180,-90,0,0
Content-Type: application/json</codeblock>
  </section>
  
  
  
  <section><title>Response</title>
  
  <p>Example response:</p>
  
  <codeblock>{
    "total_rows": 0,
    "rows": [
        {
            "id": "oakland",
            "key": [
                [
                    -122.270833,
                    -122.270833
                ],
                [
                    37.804444,
                    37.804444
                ]
            ],
            "value": [
                "oakland",
                [
                    -122.270833,
                    37.804444
                ]
            ]
        }
    ]
}</codeblock>
  </section>
  
 </conbody>
</concept>
