<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_h3x_x4n_qv">
  <title>Asynchronous Programming</title>
  <body>
        <p>The Python SDK supports asynchronous programming by offering integration modules for
            Twisted, gevent, and Python 3.4 asyncio.</p>
        <p>Users of any of these frameworks should understand and know how the synchronous API
            functions before using any asynchronous framework, since the asynchronous functionality
            is an extension of the synchronous functionality.</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="topic_x5z_1pn_qv">
        <title>Twisted</title>
        <body>
            <p><note>Refer to the API reference (<xref
                        href="http://pythonhosted.org/couchbase/api/txcouchbase.html" format="html"
                        scope="external"/>) for more information about the
                        <apiname>txcouchbase</apiname> module.</note><xref
                    href="http://twistedmatrix.com" format="html" scope="external">Twisted</xref> is
                a high performance and very mature Python asynchronous framework.</p>
            <section><title>Key-Value (CRUD) Operations</title>To use the Python SDK with twisted,
                use the <apiname>txcouchbase</apiname> module (included with the SDK). As opposed to
                the synchronous SDK methods which wait for completion and return Result objects, the
                    <apiname>txcouchbase.bucket.Bucket</apiname> object returns a Twisted
                    <codeph>Deferred</codeph>. You may configure <codeph>Deferred</codeph> with
                    <i>callback</i> and <i>errback</i> handlers. Result objects are propagated to
                the <i>callback</i> as seen in the example below.
                <codeblock outputclass="language-python">from twisted.internet import reactor
from txcouchbase.bucket import Bucket
bucket = Bucket('couchbase://localhost/default')

def on_ok(result):
    print "Operation succeeded"
    if hasattr(result, 'value'):
        print "Value is", result.value

def on_err(err):
    print "Operation failed", err

bucket.upsert('id', {'some':['value']}).addBeoth(on_ok, on_err)
bucket.get('id').addBoth(on_ok, on_err)</codeblock></section>
            <section>
                <title>N1QL Queries</title>
                <p>You may issue N1QL queries in the Twisted API using the
                        <apiname>n1qlQueryAll()</apiname> or <apiname>n1qlQueryEx()</apiname>
                    methods. The <apiname>n1qlQueryAll()</apiname> method returns an
                        <apiname>Deferred</apiname> which will invoke the callback with an iterable
                    of rows. The <apiname>n1qlQueryEx</apiname> accepts a user-defined subclass of
                        <apiname>couchbase.async.n1ql.AsyncN1QLRequest</apiname>, with several
                    callbacks implemented, and allows you to handle the rows as they are received
                    from the cluster, rather than buffering the entire resultset in memory before
                    invoking the handler.</p>
                <codeblock spectitle="n1qlQueryAll">@inlineCallbacks
def do_n1ql_query(cb):
    rvs = yield cb.n1qlQueryAll(
            N1QLQuery('SELECT * from `travel-sample` LIMIT 10'))
    for row in rvs:
        print row</codeblock>
                <codeblock spectitle="n1qlQueryEx">class RowsHandler(AsyncN1QLRequest):
    def __init__(self, *args, **kwargs):
        super(RowsHandler, self).__init__(*args, **kwargs)
        self.deferred = Deferred()

    def on_rows(self, rows):
        print "Got {} rows".format(len([x for x in rows]))
    def on_done(self):

        print "Rows complete!"
        self.deferred.callback(self)

    def on_error(self, ex):
        self.deferred.errback(ex)

@inlineCallbacks
def do_n1ql_query(cb):
    yield cb.n1qlQueryEx(RowsHandler, N1QLQuery('SELECT * FROM `travel-sample` LIMIT 10'))</codeblock>
            </section>
            <section>
                <title>MapReduce Queries</title>
                <p>Like N1QL queries, MapReduce queries are available via the
                        <apiname>queryAll()</apiname> and <apiname>queryEx()</apiname> methods, the
                    former returning all the rows at once, and the latter accepting a subclass of
                        <apiname>couchbase.async.view.AsyncViewBase</apiname> which defines various
                    functions.<codeblock spectitle="queryAll">@inlineCallbacks
def do_view_query():
    rows = yield cb.queryAll(
            'beer', 'brewery_beers', limit=20, include_docs=True)
    for row in rows:
        print row.key, row.doc.value['description'][:10] + '...'</codeblock><codeblock spectitle="queryEx">from couchbase.async.view import AsyncViewBase

class RowsHandler(AsyncViewBase):
    def __init__(self, *args, **kwargs):
        super(RowsHandler, self).__init__(*args, **kwargs)
        self.deferred = Deferred()

    def on_rows(self, rows):
        print '** Got row callback!'
        for row in rows:
            print row.key, row.doc.value['description'][:10] + '...'

    def on_error(self, ex):
        self.deferred.errback(ex)

    def on_done(self):
        self.deferred.callback(self)

@inlineCallbacks
def do_view_query(cb):
    handler = cb.queryEx(
            RowsHandler, 'beer', 'brewery_beers', limit=20, include_docs=True)
    yield handler.deferred</codeblock></p>
            </section>
        </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="topic_i4t_5st_qv">
        <title>Gevent</title>
        <body>
            <p><xref href="http://www.gevent.org" format="html" scope="external">gevent</xref> is a
                high performance asynchronous framework. It is very powerful in that it allows for a
                (mostly) traditional synchronous coding style. It accomplishes this by using
                coroutines known as <term>greenlets</term> or <term>eventlets</term>.<note>The
                        <i>Gevent</i> support in the Python SDK is truly <i>native</i>. This means
                    that it will <i>not</i> block your application while performing I/O. It should
                    also be noted that the <i>gevent</i> functionality does <i>not</i> depend on
                        <xref href="http://www.gevent.org/gevent.monkey.html" format="html"
                        scope="external">monkey-patching functionality</xref>. Because of how gevent
                    support is implemented.<p>The above is important because the normal synchronous
                            <apiname>couchbase</apiname> module will also function in gevent,
                        however unlike <apiname>gcouchbase</apiname>, it will block your application
                        while running.</p></note></p>
            <p>The <i>gevent</i> API is almost identical to the simple synchronous API, though it
                requires that a different module be imported to properly integrate with gevent. So
                instead
                of<codeblock>from couchbase.bucket import Bucket
cb = Bucket(connstr)</codeblock>do<codeblock>from <b>g</b>couchbase.bucket import Bucket
cb = Bucket(connstr)</codeblock></p>
            <section>
                <title>Key-Value (CRUD) Operations:</title>
                <p>Key-Value operations using <apiname>gcouchbase</apiname> is exactly the same as
                    the synchronous <apiname>couchbase</apiname>
                    <xref href="sdk-operations-py.dita#concept_r4d_bng_vt">counterpart</xref></p>
                <codeblock>from gcouchbase.bucket import Bucket
bucket = Bucket('couchbase://localhost/default')
bucket.upsert('id', {'some':['value']})
print bucket.get('id').value</codeblock>
            </section>
            <section><title>N1QL Queries</title>The API for N1QL queries with <i>gcouchbase</i> is
                exactly the same as in the synchronous
                module:<codeblock>from gcouchbase.bucket import Bucket
from couchbase.n1ql import N1QLQuery

cb = Bucket('couchbase://localhost/travel-sample')
it = cb.n1ql_query(N1QLQuery('SELECT * from `travel-sample` LIMIT 10'))
for row in it:
    print row</codeblock>Note
                that if you inspect the returned iterator object, it is actually a different object
                than the synchronous
                iterator:<codeblock>print it
&lt;gcouchbase.bucket.GN1QLRequest object at 0x103694d50></codeblock></section>
            <section>
                <title>MapReduce Queries</title>
                <p>Issuing MapReduce queries with <i>gcouchbase</i> is exactly the same as in the
                    synchronous module</p>
                <codeblock>from gcouchbase.bucket import Bucket

cb = Bucket('couchbase://localhost/beer-sample')
resiter = cb.query('beer', 'brewery_beers', limit=10)
for row in resiter:
    print row</codeblock>
            </section>
        </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="topic_xr1_f15_qv">
        <title>Asyncio (Python 3.5+)</title>
        <body>
            <p><xref href="https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio.html" format="html"
                    scope="external">asyncio</xref> is another asynchronous module which ships with
                Python version 3.5 and later. The <i>asyncio</i> module is supported in Couchbase
                via the experimental <apiname>acouchbase</apiname> module. The
                    <apiname>acouchbase.bucket.Bucket</apiname> object returns
                    <apiname>asyncio.Future</apiname> objects rather than actual results.</p>
            <p>To use a bucket from <apiname>acouchbase</apiname>, you need to enable experimental
                SDK features. This is essentially an explicit disclaimer which is visible in
                production code to ensure that potentially unstable code does not accidentally get
                used in production.</p>
            <section>
                <title>Key-Value (CRUD) Operations</title>
                <p>CRUD operations return <apiname>Future</apiname> objects which can then be used
                    for <codeph>await</codeph> clauses. The future's result will always be the
                    relevant <apiname>Result</apiname> object for the operation performed.</p>
                <codeblock>import asyncio
import couchbase.experimental; couchbase.experimental.enable()
from acouchbase.bucket import Bucket

async def do_crud_op():
    cb = Bucket('couchbase://localhost/default')
    await cb.connect()
    await cb.upsert('id', {'some': 'value'})
    return await cb.get('id')

loop = asyncio.get_event_loop()
rv = loop.run_until_complete(do_crud_op())
print(rv.value)</codeblock>
            </section>
            <section>
                <title>N1QL Queries</title>
                <p>The API for issuing N1QL queries is almost identical to the synchronous API. The
                    notable difference is the use of <codeph>async for</codeph> rather than
                        <codeph>for</codeph> when iterating over the results:</p>
                <p>
                    <codeblock>async def do_n1ql_query(cb):
    it = cb.n1ql_query(N1QLQuery('SELECT * from `travel-sample` LIMIT 10'))
    async for row in it:
        print(row)</codeblock>
                </p>
            </section>
            <section>
                <title>MapReduce Queries</title>
                <p>The API for issuing MapReduce queries is almost identical to the synchronous API.
                    The notable difference is the use of <codeph>async for</codeph> rather than
                        <codeph>for</codeph> when iterating over the
                    results:<codeblock>async def do_view_query(cb):
    it = cb.query('beer', 'brewery_beers', limit=20, include_docs=True)
    async for row in it:
        print(row.key, row.doc.value['description'][:10] + '...')</codeblock></p>
            </section>
        </body>
    </topic>
</topic>
