<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_rm5_qs3_t5">
    <title>Installation</title>
    <body>
        <section>
            <title>Developing with Couchbase</title>
            <codeblock>from couchbase.bucket import Bucket

cb = Bucket('couchbase://localhost/default')
cb.upsert('cb_dev_manual', {
    'name': 'Couchbase Developer Guide',
    'language': 'Python',
    'type': 'devguide'
})

print ''

for row in cb.n1ql_query('SELECT name, language WHERE type="devguide"'):
    print '{0} ({1})'.format(row['name'], row['language'])</codeblock>
            <title>Download and Install Server</title>
            <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Integer congue, arcu quis
                pellentesque semper, sapien lacus semper augue, eget volutpat sem quam eu turpis.
                Suspendisse maximus semper auctor. Vivamus cursus sapien at odio malesuada tempus id
                et urna. Sed dapibus ullamcorper magna et eleifend. Nulla facilisi. Nullam et nulla
                commodo, placerat nunc tempor, tincidunt ipsum. Sed finibus neque id sem dictum
                vestibulum. Nulla facilisi. Nullam a tellus mattis nunc tristique finibus. Ut semper
                dui vitae justo porta, in tristique justo dapibus. Fusce egestas mollis posuere.</p>
            <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Integer congue, arcu quis
                pellentesque semper, sapien lacus semper augue, eget volutpat sem quam eu turpis.
                Suspendisse maximus semper auctor. Vivamus cursus sapien at odio malesuada tempus id
                et urna. Sed dapibus ullamcorper magna et eleifend. Nulla facilisi. Nullam et nulla
                commodo, placerat nunc tempor, tincidunt ipsum. Sed finibus neque id sem dictum
                vestibulum. Nulla facilisi. Nullam a tellus mattis nunc tristique finibus. Ut semper
                dui vitae justo porta, in tristique justo dapibus. Fusce egestas mollis posuere.</p>
            <p>For more customized installation options, refer to the <i>server installation
                guide</i></p>
        </section>
    </body>
    <topic id="topic_mlv_gfk_55">
        <title>Installing the SDK</title>
        <body>
            <p>The SDK requires Python 2.6 or greater. Use <codeph>python -V</codeph> to get the
                version of Python being used.</p>
            <section><p><b>Installing on Linux, OS X, and other Unix-like systems</b></p><ol
                id="ol_npr_qwm_2q">
                <li><xref href="../c-2.4/download-install.dita#c-download-install">Install the C
                    library</xref>. <p>
                        <note type="important">If you don't have the C library installed, the
                            rest of this installation will not work. </note>
                    </p><p>If you already have the C SDK installed, ensure the installed version
                        is at least <b>2.5.0.</b>To determine the version, either query your
                        package version, or run the <codeph>cbc</codeph>
                        command:<screen outputclass="language-bash">$ cbc version
cbc:
  Runtime: Version=2.5.3, Changeset=041e4d58d24ea3ba2b4c3e307ac7da90a28eba68
  Headers: Version=2.5.3, Changeset=041e4d58d24ea3ba2b4c3e307ac7da90a28eba68
  IO: Default=libevent, Current=libevent
  SSL: .. SUPPORTED</screen>Note
                        that depending on how your libcouchbase was installed, the
                        <codeph>cbc</codeph> command might not be available and is not
                        required for the Python SDK. </p></li>
                <li>Install the Python development files: <ul id="ul_awr_qwm_2q">
                    <li>For EL6-based RPM distributions (e.g. CentOS 6, RHEL 6):
                        <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ yum install python-devel</codeblock></li>
                    <li>For Debian-based systems (including Ubuntu):
                        <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ apt-get install python-dev</codeblock></li>
                    <li>For OS X, the Python development files are already included in the
                        Python distribution.</li>
                </ul></li>
                <li>Install the Python SDK. The easiest way to do this is via the
                    <codeph>pip</codeph> tool:
                    <screen outputclass="language-bash">$ pip install couchbase</screen>Alternatively,
                    you can manually download the source package at <xref format="html"
                        scope="external" href="https://pypi.python.org/pypi/couchbase"
                        >PyPi</xref>.<note>If you get an error message like
                            <screen>  src/pycbc.h:25:10: fatal error: 'libcouchbase/couchbase.h' file not found
  #include &lt;libcouchbase/couchbase.h>
           ^
  1 error generated.
  error: command 'clang' failed with exit status 1</screen>then
                            you have not installed the C SDK. Please <xref
                                href="../c-2.4/download-install.dita#c-download-install">Install the
                                C library</xref> to fix this error.</note>
                </li>
                <li>Verify that your Python SDK is available and working by entering the
                    following command:
                    <screen outputclass="language-bash">$ python -c 'import couchbase'</screen>
                    If this command does not print any errors or exceptions, your Python SDK is
                    properly installed! </li>
            </ol><sectiondiv><b>Installation on Microsoft Windows</b>
                <p>The process for installing on Windows involves downloading the correct
                    installer for your system and installing it. There are no additional
                    dependencies, as the C library is embedded into the SDK.</p><p>Go to the
                        SDK's PyPi page (<xref
                            href="https://pypi.python.org/pypi/couchbase#downloads" format="html"
                            scope="external"/>) and download the executable installer corresponding
                        to your version and architecture of Python. Keep in mind that "32 bit" and
                        "64 bit" correspond to your <i>Python</i> version, not your operating
                        system.</p><p>You may verify your installation by importing the
                            <codeph>couchbase</codeph> module (as per instruction #4 for
                            *nix).</p></sectiondiv></section>
        </body>
    </topic>
</topic>
