<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="python-sample-app-backend">
  <title>Python Sample App backend tutorial</title>
  <titlealts><navtitle>Sample App backend in Python</navtitle></titlealts>
  <shortdesc>The Python SDK tutorial bridges the gap between simple and advanced concepts by walking through a complete web application.</shortdesc>
    <body>

        <section>
            <p>The full source code for the tutorial is available on GitHub: <xref
                    href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-python/" scope="external"
                    format="html">http://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-python</xref>.
                The primary focus of the tutorial is to explain the
                function and theory behind the Couchbase Python client and how it works together with Couchbase Server, and especially new features in versions 4.0/4.5 like <codeph>N1QL</codeph>, <codeph>FTS</codeph> and <codeph>sub-document</codeph>. It makes use of the <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> data set. The code that generates the web application is provided with the source code,
                but is not discussed in this tutorial.
            </p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Specific Python prerequisites and set up</title>
            <p> In addition to the prerequisites mentioned in <xref
                    href="../sample-application.dita"/>, you'll need: <ul>
                    <li>Python 2.7 or greater</li>
                    <li>Couchbase C Library - <xref
                            href="https://developer.couchbase.com/documentation/server/current/sdk/c/start-using-sdk.html"
                            format="html" scope="external">libcouchbase</xref></li>
                </ul></p>
            <p> To get set up for the tutorial proper, follow these steps: <ul>
                    <li><codeph>git clone
                            https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-python.git</codeph> or <xref
                            href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/try-cb-python" format="zip"
                            scope="external">download the source</xref>
                    </li>
                    <li>Install necessary libraries: <codeph>pip install -r
                            requirements.txt</codeph></li>
                    <li>Start the application: <codeph>python travel.py</codeph></li>
                    <li>Run the app: <xref href="http://localhost:8080" scope="external"
                            format="html">http://localhost:8080</xref></li>
                    <li>If you don't want to connect to Couchbase on localhost, change the
                        configuration in <codeph>travel.py</codeph> (eg. CONNSTR).</li>
                    <li>Press CONTROL+C to stop the application when finished</li>
                </ul></p>

            <note type="tip"> This tutorial focuses on querying through N1QL and FTS rather than
                views. If you want information about using views, see the following resources: <ul>
                    <li>General Information about views: <xref
                            href="../../architecture/incremental-map-reduce-views.dita"/>
                    </li>
                    <li>Querying views:<xref
                            href="../../indexes/querying-using-map-reduce-views.dita"/></li>
                </ul></note>
    </section>
        <section>
	    <title>Walking Through the API</title>
	    <p>The following sections lead you through the primary functions of the sample application. All of the REST API application code is
        in the <codeph>travel.py</codeph> file.  The following shows you how to program with the various features and services of Couchbase including: <b>connecting</b> to a cluster and bucket, <b>key/value</b> iteraction, document <b>query through N1QL</b> and <b>full text searches</b>.</p>
	</section>
        <section>
            <title>Configure and Bootstrap the SDK</title><p><b>Where</b>:
                    <codeph>connect_db()</codeph></p><p><b>Goals</b>: Connecting to the
                    <codeph>Cluster</codeph> and getting a reference to a <codeph>Bucket</codeph>,
                learn to reuse it.</p><p><b>Relevant Documentation Topics</b>: <xref
                    href="managing-connections.dita"/></p><p>The first step is to let the
                application connect to your cluster and obtain a reference to a
                    <codeph>Bucket</codeph> (the Bucket is your entry point for the whole storage
                API). The <codeph>CONNSTR</codeph> variable defines the connection string including
                hostname and bucket. The <codeph>PASSWORD</codeph> variable is used separately and
                gets passed to the <codeph>Bucket()</codeph> method as an option. </p>
            <b>Connecting to the Cluster and Bucket</b>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-python"><![CDATA[
def connect_db():
    return Bucket(CONNSTR, password=PASSWORD)

db = connect_db()]]></codeblock><p>The <codeph>Bucket()</codeph> method both connects to the Cluster
                and returns the connection to the requested Bucket, using the global
                    <codeph>CONNSTR</codeph> and <codeph>PASSWORD</codeph> variables. </p><p>Both
                bucket and cluster can be managed through the SDK as well (eg. add views or create
                new buckets), see <xref href="managing-clusters.dita"/> for more information.
            </p></section>

        <section>
            <title>Managing Users using Key/Value API</title><p><b>Where</b>: <codeph>class
                    UserView()</codeph></p><p><b>Goals</b>: Use <codeph>Bucket</codeph> operations
                and discover the <codeph>Document</codeph> API.</p><p><b>Relevant Documentation
                    Topics</b>: <xref href="document-operations.dita"/>, <xref
                    href="async-programming.dita"/>, <xref href="../subdocument-operations.dita"
                /></p><p>Couchbase Server is a document oriented database which provides access to
                your data both through its document ID (for high performance access), as well as
                through views and N1QL (as powerful query languages).</p><p> This is noticeable in
                the API, where the methods reflect Key/Value operations
                    (<codeph>retrieve_in</codeph>, <codeph>upsert</codeph>, etc...) and work with a
                    <codeph>Sub Document</codeph> interface that has an <codeph>id()</codeph> and
                requests specific content from the document. The default Document implementation
                accepts a simple representation of JSON as its content. </p>
            <b>Creating New Users</b>
            <p>A new user first goes through the <codeph>signup()</codeph> method which does a POST
                of <codeph>username</codeph> and <codeph>password</codeph> encoded as a JSON
                object.<codeblock>userrec = {'username': user, 'password': password}</codeblock>It
                uses a JWT encoded version of the password to keep things secure. The JWT token is
                also used through further interaction to validate the user session and is created
                using a custom function <codeph>make_user_key()</codeph>.</p><note type="tip"> The
                    <codeph>"user::"</codeph> prefix is arbitrary to this application, this is just
                a convention that the app uses to obtain unique keys and have additional information
                in it, but the key could have been anything else (even sequence numbers or UUIDs)
                really.</note><p>Here comes the part where the Couchbase API is used to store the
                document, it's rather simple, the application uses an <codeph>upsert</codeph> method
                which does an insert or an update, depending on whether the records exists already
                or not: <codeblock>db.upsert(make_user_key(user), userrec)</codeblock></p><p> The
                resulting JSON data and confirmation is sent back to the client with a success or an
                exception if it failed.</p><note type="tip">When it comes to storing a document, you
                have a choice of three methods: <ul>
                    <li><codeph>insert()</codeph> will only work if no document currently exists for
                        the given ID, otherwise a <codeph>DocumentAlreadyExistsException</codeph>
                        will be thrown.</li>
                    <li><codeph>replace()</codeph> on the contrary will only work if the document
                        does already exist (otherwise a
                            <codeph>DocumentDoesNotExistException</codeph> is thrown).</li>
                    <li><codeph>upsert()</codeph> will always work, replacing or creating the
                        document as needed.</li>
                </ul></note><p>So the result in fact just contains a JWT (Json WebToken) to identify
                the new user. If there is a problem, an
                    <codeph>AuthenticationServiceException</codeph> will be thrown and correctly
                translated by the controller layer. But what is this <codeph>narration</codeph>
                object in the <codeph>Result</codeph>?</p><p>The frontend understands this second
                part of the <codeph>Result</codeph>, the narration, as something that it can display
                in a console, so that users of the application can directly get an idea of what is
                going on on the server side while browsing the app. It is similar to a log, but sent
                to the frontend.</p>
            <b>Checking login by getting the User's document</b>
            <p>In the <codeph>login()</codeph> method, the application checks a User's credential
                and for that it needs to retrieve the corresponding document. Since user documents
                are identified by prefixing their username with <codeph>user::</codeph>, this is
                pretty simple. Using the sub-document <codeph>retrieve_in()</codeph> it can request
                only the precise values it wants from the document, in this case the password:
                </p><codeblock outputclass="language-python"><![CDATA[doc_pass = db.retrieve_in(userdockey, 'password')[0]]]></codeblock><p>
                If that particular key doesn't exist, the <codeph>retrieve_in()</codeph> method
                returns <codeph>NotFoundError</codeph>. That's useful to check if the user exists at
                all.</p><p> Otherwise it's just a matter of checking the hashed password with the
                one provided by the user, and responding accordingly.</p></section>

        <section>
            <title>A First N1QL Query: Finding Airports</title>
            <p><b>Where</b>: <codeph>class Airport()</codeph></p>
            <p><b>Goals</b>: Use N1QL and the DSL to perform your first <codeph>SELECT</codeph> on Couchbase.</p>
            <p><b>Relevant Documentation Topics</b>: <xref href="n1ql-queries-with-sdk.dita"/>.</p>
            <p> In the SDK, there is a <codeph>query</codeph> method that accepts all variants of
                querying with Couchbase (views, spatial/geo views, N1QL and FTS). For N1QL, the
                    <codeph>n1ql_query()</codeph> function is used. </p>
            <note type="tip">N1QL is a super-set of SQL, so if you're familiar with SQL you'll feel at ease.</note>
            <p>Statements can be provide either in String form or using the DSL.</p>
            <p>The <codeph>findAll()</codeph> method is expected to return a <codeph>List</codeph>
                (several matching rows) of <codeph>Map</codeph>s representing the JSON value. </p>
            <p>The application just selects the airport name from relevant documents in our
                    <codeph>bucket</codeph>. Since it filterd relevant document on a criteria that
                depends on the input length, it just does the SELECT and FROM clauses
                    first:<codeph>queryprep = "SELECT airportname FROM `travel-sample` WHERE
                    "</codeph>
            </p>
            <p>Then it can chose the correct fields to look into depending on the length of the
                input. The user can enter either a ICAO or FAA code or a full name of an airport to
                search for, so it accommodates each scenario as it builds the N1QL statement. The
                application also uses wildcards in the statement to give a free form expression: </p>
        
        <codeblock outputclass="language-python"><![CDATA[
if len(querystr) == 3:
    queryprep += "LOWER(faa) = $1"
    queryargs = [querystr]
elif len(querystr) == 4:
    queryprep += "LOWER(icao) = $1"
    queryargs = [querystr]
else:
    queryprep += "LOWER(airportname) LIKE $1"
    queryargs = ['%' + querystr + '%']
        ]]></codeblock>

            <p>The statement is ready! You can execute this statement by wrapping it in a
                    <codeph>N1QLQuery()</codeph> and invoking <codeph>db.n1ql_query()</codeph>. Here
                it is very simple, no placeholders and no particular tuning of the query is
                necessary, so the application uses the simple method: <codeph>res =
                    db.n1ql_query(N1QLQuery(queryprep, *queryargs))</codeph>
            </p>
            <p>The results of the query are return in a list of records, which then iterate over to build a JSON document of the results:</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-python"><![CDATA[
airportslist = [x for x in res]
context = [queryprep]

response = make_response(jsonify({"data": airportslist, "context": context}))
            ]]></codeblock>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>More Complex Queries: Finding Routes</title>
            <p><b>Where</b>: <codeph>class FlightPathsView()</codeph></p>
            <p><b>Goals</b>: Let the DSL guide you into making more complex N1QL queries.</p>
            <p><b>Relevant Documentation Topics</b>: <xref href="n1ql-queries-with-sdk.dita"/>.</p>
            <p>In this class, there are two more complex queries. The first aims at transforming the
                human-readable airport name for the departure and arrival airports to FAA codes:</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-sql">SELECT faa AS fromAirport FROM `travel-sample` WHERE airportname = "Los Angeles Intl"
  UNION SELECT faa AS toAirport FROM `travel-sample` WHERE airportname = "San Francisco Intl"</codeblock>
            <p>The second aims at constructing the result set of available flight paths that connect
                the two airports: </p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-sql">SELECT a.name, s.flight, s.utc, r.sourceairport, r.destinationairport, r.equipment
  FROM `travel-sample` AS r
  UNNEST r.schedule AS s
  JOIN `travel-sample` AS a ON KEYS r.airlineid
  WHERE r.sourceairport = "LAX" AND r.destinationairport = "SFO" AND s.day = 6
  ORDER BY a.name ASC</codeblock>
            <note type="tip"> Yes, you read that right, N1QL can do joins (on a single bucket or on
                several). It works as long as the "foreign key" described by <codeph>ON
                    KEYS</codeph> clause can be mapped to a document's key in the joined bucket. </note>
            <p>A specificity of N1QL that can be seen in the second statement is
                    <codeph>UNNEST</codeph>. It extracts a sub-JSON and puts it at the same root
                level as the bucket (so its possible to do joins on each element in this sub-JSON as
                if they were entries in a left-hand side bucket). </p>
            <p>For this final step, try to obtain the equivalent of these statements via the DSL and
                see how it guides you through the possibilities of the query language. </p>
        </section>


        <section>
            <title>Indexing the Data: N1QL &amp; GSI</title>
            <p><b>Goals</b>: Use the Index DSL to make sure data is indexed for N1QL to query it.</p>
            <p>Index management is a bit more advanced (and is already done when loading the
                sample), so now that you've learned about N1QL, you can have a look at it. There is
                no code example in this application, but some is presented below for your
                reference.</p>
                <p>For N1QL to work, you must first ensure that at least a
                <codeph>Primary Index</codeph> has been created. For that you can use the DSL from the <codeph>Index</codeph> class:
            </p>
<codeblock outputclass="language-python"><![CDATA[db.n1ql_query('CREATE PRIMARY INDEX ON `travel-sample`).execute()]]></codeblock>
            <p>You can also create secondary indexes on specific fields of the JSON, for better
                performance: </p>
<codeblock outputclass="language-python"><![CDATA[db.n1ql_query('CREATE INDEX `def_username` ON `travel-sample`(username)').execute()]]></codeblock>
            <p>In this case, give a name to your index, specify the target bucket AND the field(s)
                in the JSON to index. </p>
        </section>
        <section><title>Full Text Search: Finding Hotels</title><p><b>Where</b>: <codeph>class
                    HotelView()</codeph></p><p><b>Goals</b>: Use FTS to search for matching Hotels.
                Use sub-document API to fetch the relevant data for each hit.</p><p><b>Relevant
                    Documentation Topics</b>: <xref href="full-text-searching-with-sdk.dita"/>,
                    <xref href="../subdocument-operations.dita"/>.</p><p>In this service, the hotels
                can be looked up using more fuzzy criteria like the content of the address or the
                description of a hotel, using FTS. Once there are some results, fetch only the
                relevant data for each result to be displayed in the UI using the sub-document API.
                </p><p>The <codeph>findall()</codeph> method accepts two parameters,
                    <codeph>location</codeph> and <codeph>description</codeph>, which are the two
                possible refining criteria for a hotel search.</p><codeblock outputclass="language-python"><![CDATA[
def findall(self, description, location):
    qp = FT.ConjunctionQuery(FT.TermQuery(term='hotel', field='type'))
        ]]></codeblock><p>A <codeph>ConjunctionQuery</codeph> allows you to combine multiple FTS
                queries into one, as an AND operation. That search always includes an exact match
                criteria that restricts it to the <codeph>hotel</codeph> data type (as reflected in
                the <codeph>type</codeph> field of the JSON document).</p><p>If the user provided a
                location keyword, we add a second component to the FTS query that will look for that
                keyword in several address-related fields of the document. That is done in an OR
                fashion, using a <codeph>Disjunction</codeph> this time:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-python"><![CDATA[
if location != '*':
    qp.conjuncts.append(
        FT.DisjunctionQuery(
            FT.MatchPhraseQuery(location, field='country'),
            FT.MatchPhraseQuery(location, field='city'),
            FT.MatchPhraseQuery(location, field='state'),
            FT.MatchPhraseQuery(location, field='address')
        ))            
]]></codeblock><p>Similarly, if a description keyword was provided by the user, the application
                looks at the freeform text <codeph>description</codeph> field and
                    <codeph>name</codeph> field of the document:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-python"><![CDATA[
if description != '*':
    qp.conjuncts.append(
        FT.DisjunctionQuery(
            FT.MatchPhraseQuery(description, field='description'),
            FT.MatchPhraseQuery(description, field='name')
        ))
]]></codeblock><p>The <codeph>MatchPhraseQuery</codeph> can contain several words and will search
                for variations of the words (eg. including plural forms or words with the same
                root...).</p><p>The compound FTS query is now ready to be executed. The application
                builds a <codeph>SearchQuery</codeph> object out of it, which also determines which
                FTS index to use ("hotels") and allows it to set various parameters (like a limit of
                maximum 100 hits to return). The query is logged (and kept for narration) then
                executed, returning a <codeph>SearchQueryResult</codeph> object:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-python"><![CDATA[
q = db.search('hotels', qp, limit=100)
]]></codeblock>The FTS results are then iterated over, and the document corresponding to each result
            is fetched. In actuality, only the parts of the document that will be displayed in the
            UI are required. This is where the sub-document API comes in.<p>The sub-document API
                allows you to fetch or mutate only a set of paths inside a JSON document, without
                having to send the whole document back and forth. This can save network bandwidth if
                the document is large and the parts that the application is interested in are small.
                So here the results of the FTS search are iterated over and appropriate subdoc calls
                are triggered:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-python"><![CDATA[
results = []
for row in q:
    subdoc = db.retrieve_in(row['id'], 'country', 'city', 'state',
                            'address', 'name', 'description')
    if subdoc['state'] == None:
        addrstate = "none"
    else:
        addrstate = subdoc['state']
        
    if subdoc['address'] == None:
        addr = ""
    else:
        addr = subdoc['address']

    subresults = {'name': subdoc['name'],
                    'description': subdoc['description'],
                    'address': ', '.join((
                        addr, subdoc['city'],
                        addrstate, subdoc['country']))
                    }
    results.append(subresults)

response = {'data': results}
return jsonify(response)            
            ]]></codeblock><p>Each FTS hit is represented as a row dictionary with each document's
                    <codeph>id</codeph>. The application can use the sub-document API dedicated to
                fetching data (<codeph>db.retrieve_in(documentId, fields...)</codeph>) and specify
                what fields it wants: country, city, state, address, name and description. In the
                rest of the code, the address-related fields are checked for some empty values and
                then aggregated together and the data obtained is returned as a JSON document for
                the browser.</p></section>
    </body>
</topic>
