<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_tvx_nhq_44">
    <title>MapReduce (Views)</title>
    <shortdesc>You can use MapReduce views to create queryable indexes in Couchbase Server. </shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>The normal CRUD methods allow you to look up a document by its ID. A MapReduce
            (<i>view</i> query) allows you to look up one or more documents based on various
            criteria. MapReduce views are comprised of a <i>map</i> function that is executed once per
            document (this is done incrementally, so this is not run each time you query the view) and
            an optional <i>reduce</i> function that performs aggregation on the results of the
            <i>map</i> function. The <i>map</i> and <i>reduce</i> functions are stored on the server
            and written in JavaScript.</p>
        <p>MapReduce queries can be further customized during query time to allow only a subset (or
            range) of the data to be returned.</p>
        <p>The following example queries a <codeph>by_name</codeph> view in a beer design document.
            This view checks whether a document is a beer and has a name. If it does, it emits the
            beer's name into the index. This view allows beers to be queried for by name.</p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">function (doc, meta) {
  if (doc.type &amp;&amp; doc.type == "beer" &amp;&amp; doc.name) {    
     emit(doc.name, null);
  }
}</codeblock>
        <p>Querying a view through the Python client is performed through the
            <codeph>query()</codeph> method on the <apiname>Bucket</apiname> class. This method
            returns a Python iterator that yields the results of the query (in the form of a
            <apiname>ViewRow</apiname> object). The <apiname>ViewRow</apiname> object contains the
            <codeph>key</codeph> and <codeph>value</codeph> properties (which are the first and
            second arguments to the view's <codeph>emit()</codeph> function, respectively) as well as
            the <codeph>docid</codeph> property, which may be passed to the <apiname>get()</apiname>
            method to return the actual document.</p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-python">bkt = Bucket('couchbase://192.168.33.101/beer-sample')
resiter = bkt.query('beer', 'by_name')
for row in resiter:
    print row</codeblock>
        <p>You can also manually construct a <apiname>couchbase.views.params.Query</apiname> object,
            which allows you to set various properties on the query:</p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-python">from couchbase.bucket import Bucket
from couchbase.views.params import Query

bkt = Bucket('couchbase://192.168.33.101/beer-sample')
q = Query()
q.limit = 5 # Limit to 5 results
q.mapkey_range = ('A','A'+Query.STRING_RANGE_END)

rows = bkt.query('beer', 'by_name', query=q)
for row in rows:
    print row</codeblock>
        <p>Here's some sample output for the previous query:</p>
        <codeblock>ViewRow(key=u'A. LeCoq Imperial Extra Double Stout 1999', value=None, 
   docid=u'harvey_son_lewes-a_lecoq_imperial_extra_double_stout_1999', doc=None)
ViewRow(key=u'A. LeCoq Imperial Extra Double Stout 2000', value=None, 
   docid=u'harvey_son_lewes-a_lecoq_imperial_extra_double_stout_2000', doc=None)
ViewRow(key=u'Aass Brewery', value=None, docid=u'aass_brewery', doc=None)
ViewRow(key=u'Abana Amber Ale', value=None, docid=u'mickey_finn_s_brewery-abana_amber_ale', doc=None)
ViewRow(key=u'Abbaye de Floreffe Double', value=None, 
   docid=u'brasserie_lefebvre-abbaye_de_floreffe_double', doc=None)</codeblock>
        <p>You can also pass the query string directly. This is useful if you're using the Couchbase
            Web UI, or if you're more familiar with the direct Apache CouchDB
            interface:<codeblock outputclass="language-python">rows = bkt.query('beer', 'by_name',
                 query=Query.from_any("startkey=%22A%22&amp;endkey=%22A%5Cuefff%22&amp;limit=5"))</codeblock></p>
        <section><title>Querying Geospatial Views</title><note>Geospatial queries are present since
            Couchbase Server 3.0.1 (as experimental), and since Couchbase Server 4.0.0 (as
            stable).</note>To query a geospatial view, you will need to construct a
            <apiname>SpatialQuery</apiname> object
            (<apiname>couchbase.views.params.SpatialQuery</apiname>). Spatial queries accept a
            <parmname>start_range</parmname> and an <parmname>end_range</parmname> parameter
            which allow you to limit the enclosing bounding boxes of the result. The arguments to
            these parameters are Python lists or tuples, with each element corresponding to a
            component emitted by the key (the first two components implicitly being the longitude
            and latitude of the result itself).<p>On output, spatial queries yield instances of
                <apiname>SpatialRow</apiname> classes. A <apiname>SpatialRow</apiname> is
                similar to a <apiname>ViewRow</apiname>, with an added <codeph>geometry</codeph>
                property.<codeblock outputclass="language-python" spectitle="Querying a spatial view">from couchbase.views.params import SpatialQuery

q = SpatialQuery(start_range=[0, -90, None], end_range=[180, 90, None])
for row in bkt.query('geodesign', 'geoview', query=q):
    print "Key:", row.key
    print "Value:", row.value
    print "Geometry", row.geometry</codeblock></p></section>
        <section><title>Querying views using the Twisted API</title>Because the normal
            <codeph>couchbase.bucket</codeph>'s <codeph>query()</codeph> interfaces uses a
            blocking interface centered around iterators, the <codeph>txcouchbase</codeph> provides
            two different methods for querying.</section>
        <section>The first is the <apiname>queryAll()</apiname> method which returns a
            <apiname>Deferred</apiname> object, which has its callback invoked with a list of all
            rows:<codeblock outputclass="language-python">from twisted.internet import reactor
from txcouchbase.bucket import Bucket
from couchbase.exceptions import CouchbaseError

def on_view_rows(rows):
    for row in rows:
        print row

bkt = Bucket('couchbase://192.168.33.101/beer-sample')
d = bkt.queryAll("beer", "brewery_beers", limit=5)
d.addCallback(on_view_rows)
reactor.run()</codeblock><p>A
    more advanced way to retrieve view results is by using a <apiname>RowHandler</apiname>.
    The <codeph>RowHandler</codeph> is a class that should be subclassed by the user. The
    subclass must implement one method that is invoked when new results are available and
    another method that is invoked when all results have been
    completed:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-python">from twisted.internet import reactor
from txcouchbase.bucket import Bucket
from couchbase.async.view import AsyncViewBase

class MyRowHandler(AsyncViewBase):
    def on_rows(self, rows):
        print "Got new set of rows"
        for row in rows:
            print "   ROW:", row

    def on_done(self):
        print "All rows received!"

bkt = Bucket('couchbase://192.168.33.101/beer-sample')
bkt.queryEx(MyRowHandler, "beer", "brewery_beers", limit=50)
reactor.run()</codeblock></section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
