<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="topic_1_1" xml:lang="en-US">
	<title id="title__Toc272567187">Data in Couchbase</title>
	<shortdesc>Couchbase Server stores data in JSON documents, where each document is a JSON object
		consisting of a number of defined fields. An object can be one or more documents and object
		attributes can be fields in the document. You can store data as key-value pairs, using the
		key as you would a primary key in SQL.</shortdesc>

	<conbody>

		<p>In Couchbase Server, you do not need to perform data modeling and establish relationships
			between tables the way you would in a traditional relational database. Every JSON
			document has its own individual set of keys, although one or more informal schemas could
			be adopted for data, and each document has its own implicit schema that represents how
			you organize and nest information in your documents. Your document structure can evolve
			over time as your application grows and adds new features.</p>
		<p>Unlike the relational model, attributes within a document need not have a predefined type. For
			instance, a zip code can be an integer or a string using the document model. Documents
			belonging to the same class of application objects, such as customer documents, can have
			different attributes. For example, some customer documents can have an extra field for
			shipping insurance, while the other customer documents do not have that field at
			all.</p>

	</conbody>
</concept>
