<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="topic_2" xtrc="/w:document/w:body[1]/w:p[166]" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title xtrc="/w:document/w:body[1]/w:p[166]" id="title__Toc272567195">N1QL quick start</title>
  <conbody>
    <p>Welcome to N1QL. Here are some things to get you started quickly.</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Installation instructions describe how to install the N1QL query engine, query shell, and
        query tutorial.</li>
      <li>Query Tutorial is an interactive online tutorial that gets you up and querying
        quickly.</li>
      <li>Query Server is the N1QL query engine. </li>
      <li>Query Shell is the N1QL interface through which you can run queries.</li>
    </ul>
  
	
	<section id="installing-n1ql">
		<title>Installation</title>
		<p>To get started, navigate to the downloads page and download N1QL.</p>
		
		<p>To run N1QL on your local system:</p>
		
		<ol>
			<li>Expand the package archive.</li>
			<li>On the command line, navigate to your local N1QL directory.</li>
			<li> Run one of the following commands. <p>For Unix:</p>
				<codeph>./start_tutorial.sh</codeph> <p>For Windows:</p>
				<codeph>./start_tutorial.bat</codeph>
			</li>
			
			
		</ol>
	</section>
  	
  	<section id="running-query-tutorial">
  		<title  id="title__Toc272567197">Running the Query Tutorial</title>
  		<p>The online tutorial is a good way to get started and play with N1QL in an easy, fun environment. 
  		</p>
  		
  		<ol>
  			<li>Make sure you've followed the instructions in the Installation section.</li>
  			
  			<li>Open <codeph>>http://localhost:8093/tutorial</codeph> in your browser to use the tutorial on your local server.</li>
  			<li>To connect N1QL with your Couchbase Server:
  				<codeblock>./cbq-engine -datastore=http://[server_name]:8091/</codeblock>
  			</li>
  			<li> To use the command-line interactive query tool, run the following command:
  				<codeblock>./cbq -engine=http://[couchbase-query-engine-server-name]:8093/</codeblock>
  			</li>   
  			<li> Before issuing queries against a Couchbase keyspace, run the following command from the query
  				command line: <codeblock>CREATE PRIMARY INDEX ON [keyspace-name]</codeblock>
  			</li>
  		</ol>
  		
  	</section>
  	
  	<section id="running-query-server">
  		<title id="title__Toc272567198">Running the Query Server</title>
  		<p>The Query Server is the N1QL query engine. You can run the Query Server through the Couchbase Server or locally.</p>
  		
  		<ol>
  			<li>To connect N1QL with your Couchbase Server:
					<codeblock>./cbq-engine -datastore=http://[server_name]:8091/       </codeblock></li>
  			<li>Alternatively, you can connect N1QL to a local datastore, by running this command:
  				
  				<codeblock>./cbq-engine -datastore=$PATH_TO_DATASTORE -namespace $DEFAULT_NAMESPACE</codeblock>
  				<p>For example, <codeph>./cbq-engine -datastore "$HOME/sample_build/tutorial" -namespace data</codeph></p>
  			</li>
  		</ol>
  		
  	</section>
  	
  	<section id="running-query-shell">
  		<title  id="title__Toc272567199">Running the Query Shell</title>
  		<p>To use the command-line interactive query tool, run this command:</p>
  		
  		<codeblock>./cbq -engine=http://[couchbase-query-engine-server-name]:8093/</codeblock> 
  	</section>
  	
  </conbody>
</concept>
