<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_tlg_jqz_bw">
  <title>Phases of Data Modeling</title>
  <shortdesc>A data modeling exercise typically consists of two phases: logical data modeling and
    physical data modeling. Logical data modeling focuses on describing your entities and
    relationships. Physical data modeling takes the logical data model and maps the entities and
    relationships to physical containers.</shortdesc>
  <body>
<section><title>Logical Data Modeling</title>
  <p>The logical data modeling phase focuses on describing your entities and relationships. Logical data modeling is done independently of the requirements and facilities of the underlying database platform.</p>
  <p>At a high level, the outcome of this phase is a set of entities (objects) and their attributes that are central to your application’s objectives, as well as a description of the relationships between these entities. For example, entities in an aerospace application might be "satellite", "module" and "instrument," where their relationships might be "satellites carry many modules, which in turn are made up of many instruments".</p>
  <p>Lets look at some of the key definitions you need from your logical data modeling exercise: <ul>
    <li><b>Entity keys</b>: Each entity instance is identified by a unique key. The unique key can be a composite of multiple attributes or a surrogate key generated using a counter or a UUID generator. Composite or compound keys can be utilized to represent immutable properties and efficient processing without retrieving values. The key can be used to reference the entity instance from other entities for representing relationships. </li>
    <li><b>Entity attributes</b>: Attributes can be any of the basic data types such as string, numeric, or Boolean, or they can be an array of these types. For example, a satellite might define a number of simple attributes such as <parmname>name</parmname> and <parmname>weight</parmname>, as well as a complex attribute called <parmname>launch</parmname> which in turn contains the attributes <parmname>launch-date</parmname> and <parmname>launch-site</parmname>. </li>
    <li><b>Entity relationships</b>: Entities can have 1-to-1, 1-to-many, or many-to-many relationships. For example, "a satellite has many modules" is a 1-to-many relationship.</li>
  </ul></p>
  <p>You can find various methods of data modeling at <xref
    href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_modeling" format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
</section>
<section><title>Physical Data Modeling</title>
  <p>The physical data model takes the logical data model and maps the entities and relationships to
        physical containers. </p>
  <p>In Couchbase Server, items are used to store associated values that can be accessed with a
        unique key. Couchbase Server also provides buckets to group items. Based on the access
        patterns, performance requirements, and atomicity and consistency requirements, you can
        choose the type of container(s) to use to represent your logical data model. </p>
  <p>The data representation and containment in Couchbase Server is drastically different from
    relational databases. The following table provides a high level comparison to help you get
    familiar with Couchbase Server containers. <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1"
      id="table_tjc_k3q_dt">
      <title>Data representation and containment in Couchbase Server versus relational
        databases</title>
      <tgroup cols="2">
        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Couchbase Server</entry>
            <entry>Relational databases</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>Buckets</entry>
            <entry>Databases</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Buckets or Items (with type designator attribute)</entry>
            <entry>Tables</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Items (key-value or document)</entry>
            <entry>Rows</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Index</entry>
            <entry>Index</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table></p>
  <dl>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>Items</dt>
      <dd>Items consist of a key and a value. A key is a unique identifier within the bucket. Value can be a binary or a JSON document. You can mix binary and JSON values inside a bucket. <ul>
        <li><b>Keys</b> 
          <p>Each value (binary or JSON) is identified by a unique key. The key is typically a surrogate key generated using a counter or a UUID generator. Keys are immutable. Thus, if you use composite or compound keys, ensure that you use attributes that don’t change over time. </p></li>
        <li><b>Values</b><ul>
          <li><b>Binary values</b>: Binary values can be used for high performance access to compact data through keys. Encrypted secrets, IoT instrument measurements, proplarity session states, or other not-human-readable data are typical cases for binary data. However, using binary values limits the functionality your application can take advantage of, ruling out indexing and querying in Couchbase Server as binary values have a proprietary representation.
          </li>
          <li><b>JSON values</b>: JSON provides rich representation for entities. Couchbase Server
                    can parse, index and query JSON values. JSON provide a name and a value for each
                    attribute. You can find the JSON definition at <xref
                      href="https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7159" format="html" scope="external">RFC
                      7159</xref> or at <xref
                      href="http://www.ecma-international.org/publications/files/ECMA-ST/ECMA-404.pdf"
                      format="pdf" scope="external">ECMA 404</xref>. <p>The JSON document attributes
                      can represent both basic types such as number, string, Boolean, and complex
                      types including embedded documents and arrays. In the examples below,
                        <varname>a1</varname> and <varname>a2</varname> represent attributes that
                      have a numeric and string value respectively, <varname>a3</varname> represents
                      an embedded document, and <varname>a4</varname> represents an array of
                      embedded documents.
                      <codeblock>{  
   "a1":number,
   "a2":"string",
   "a3":{
      "b1":[ number, number, number ]
   },
   "a4":[
      { "c1":"string", "c2":number },
      { "c1":"string", "c2":number }
   ]
}</codeblock></p><p>The
                      powerful range of representations enabled by JSON in Couchbase Server
                      documents allows developers the utmost flexibility in modeling their entities
                      and relationships.</p></li>
        </ul></li>
      </ul></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>Buckets</dt>
      <dd>Couchbase Server also provides a container called a bucket to group items. Buckets are
            primarily used to control resource allocation and to define security and storage
            properties. For data with differing caching and RAM quota needs, compaction
            requirements, availability requirements and IO priorities, buckets act as the control
            boundary. <p>For example, you choose to create one replica for medical-codes data that
              contain drug, symptom and operation codes for a standard based electronic health
              record. This data can be recovered easily from other sources, so a single replica may
              be fine. However, patient data may require higher protection with 2 replicas. To
              achieve better protection for patient data without wasting additional space for
              medical-codes you could choose separate buckets for these 2 types of information.</p>
            It is important to note that buckets can mix binary and document-based items. All keys
            within the bucket need to be unique regardless of the value type (binary or JSON
            document). </dd>
    </dlentry>
  </dl>
</section>
    
  </body>
</topic>
