<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_x44_fnv_vs">
 <title>Centralized statistics and logging for simplified managing</title>
  <shortdesc>Cluster Manager simplifies centralized management with centralized statistics gathering and logging services. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
   <p>The Couchbase Server incorporates a complete set of statistical and monitoring information in order to understand what your cluster is doing and how the cluster is performing. The statistics are accesible through all the administration interfaces - CLI ( cbstats tool), REST API, and the Admin Console.</p>
     <p> The Couchbase Web Console provides a complete suite of statistics including the built-in real-time graphing and performance data. It gives great flexibility as you (as an Administrator) can aggregate the statistics for each bucket and choose to view the statistics for the whole cluster or per node. </p>
     <p>The statistics information is grouped into categories, allowing you to identify different states and performance information within the cluster. <dl>
       <dlentry>
         <dt>Statistics on hardware resources</dt>
         <dd>Node statistics show CPU, RAM and I/O numbers on each of the servers and across your cluster as a whole. This information is useful to identify performance and loading issues on a single server.</dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
         <dt>Statistics on vBuckets</dt>
         <dd>The vBucket statistics shows the usage and performance numbers for the vBuckets. This is useful to determine whether you need to reconfigure your buckets or add servers to improve performance.
         </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
         <dt>Statistics on views and indexes</dt>
         <dd>View statistics display information about individual views in your system such as number of reads from the index or view and its disk usage, so that you can monitor the effects and loading of a view on the Couchbase nodes. This information can indicate that your views need optimization, or that you need to consider defining views across multiple design documents.</dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
         <dt>Statistics on replication (DCP, TAP, and XDCR)</dt>
         <dd>The Database Change Protocol (DCP) interface is used to monitor changes and updates to
            the database. DCP is widely used internally to replicate data between the nodes, for
            backups with cbbackup, to maintain views and indexes and to integrate with external
            products with connectors such as Elasticsearch connector, Kafka connector or the Sqoop
            connector. XDCR replicates data between clusters and uses DCP in conjunction with an
            agent that is tuned to replicate data under higher WAN latencies. <p>TAP is similar to
              DCP, but is a deprecated protocol. Legacy tools may still use the protocol and stats
              are still available through the console.</p><p>Given the central role of replication
              in a distributed system like Couchbase Server, identifying statistics on replication
              is critical. Statistics in replication help visualize the health of replication and
              bottlenecks in replication by displaying replication latency and pending items in
              replication streams. </p>
          </dd>
       </dlentry>
     </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
