<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_il5_q4v_vs">
 <title>Client to cluster communication</title>
 <shortdesc>Need definition or introductory paragraph</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>Client applications communicate with Couchbase Server through a set of access points tuned for the data access category such as CRUD operations, N1QL queries, and so on. There are four main types of access points that drive the majority of client to server communications. Each access point supports clear text and encrypted communication ports. </p>
  
  
   <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_yph_ppc_ws">
    <title>Communication ports</title>
    <tgroup cols="4">
     <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
     <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
     <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.0*"/>
     <colspec colname="c4" colnum="4" colwidth="1.0*"/>
     <thead>
      <row>
       <entry>Type</entry>
       <entry>Port</entry>
       <entry>API</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
     </thead>
     <tbody>
      <row>
       <entry>REST</entry>
       <entry>8091, 18091 (SSL)</entry>
       <entry>Admin operations with the REST Admin API</entry>
       <entry>Direct Connect to a single node in the cluster to perform admin operations,
        monitoring, and alerting.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>REST</entry>
       <entry>8092, 18092 (SSL)</entry>
       <entry>Query with View (View and Spatial View API)</entry>
       <entry>Load balanced connection across nodes of the cluster that run the data service for
        View queries.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>REST</entry>
       <entry>8093, 18093 (SSL)</entry>
       <entry>Query with N1QL (N1QL API)</entry>
       <entry>Load balanced connection across nodes of the cluster that run the query service for
        N1QL queries.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>ONLINE</entry>
       <entry>11210, 11207 (SSL)</entry>
       <entry>Core Data operations</entry>
       <entry>Stateful connections from client app to nodes of the cluster that runs data service
        for CRUD operations.</entry>
      </row>
     </tbody>
    </tgroup>
   </table> 
  <section><title>Connectivity Phases</title>
   <p>When a connection request comes in from the client side, the connection is established in three phases: <ol>
    <li><b>Authentication</b>: In the first phase, the connection to a bucket is authenticated  based on the credentials provided by the client. In case of Admin REST API, admin users are authenticated for the cluster and not just a bucket.</li>
    <li><b>Discovery</b>: In the second phase, the connection gets a cluster map which represents the topology of the cluster, including the list of nodes, how data is distributed on these nodes, and the services that run on these nodes. Client applications using the SDKs only need to know the URL or address to one of the nodes in the cluster. Client applications with the cluster map discover all other nodes and the entire topology of the cluster. </li>
    <li><b>Service Connection</b>: Armed with the cluster map, client SDKs figure out the connections needed to establish and perform the service level operations through key-value, N1QL, or View APIs. Service connections require a secondary authentication to the service to ensure the credentials passed on to the service have access to the service level operations. With authentication cleared, the connection to the service is established.  
     <p>At times, the topology of the cluster may change and the service connection may get exceptions on its requests to the services. In such cases, client SDKs go back to the previous phase to rerun discovery and retry the operation with a new connection.</p></li>
   </ol>
   </p>
  </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
