<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_vxd_qf4_vs">
 <title>Global Secondary Indexes versus views</title>
 <shortdesc>There are a number of differences between views and GSIs. At a high level, GSIs are built for N1QL queries, which are great for supporting interactive applications that require fast response times.  </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>Views, on the other hand, provide sophisticated user defined functions to provide great
   flexibility in indexing. Views can support complex interactive reporting queries with a
   precalculated result. <note>N1QL can utilize both GSIs and Views. However, N1QL only utilizes a
    subset of view capabilities. N1QL does not support user defined map-reduce definitions and
    restricts the definitions to a subset of capabilities only available through the CREATE INDEX
    statement. </note></p>
  <p>The following table lists the key differences between GSIs and Views. <table frame="all"
    rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_vf1_rf2_zs">
    <title>Differences between GSIs and Views</title>
    <tgroup cols="3" align="left">
     <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
     <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
     <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3"/>
     <thead>
      <row>
       <entry/>
       <entry>GSIs</entry>
       <entry>Views</entry>
      </row>
     </thead>
     <tbody>
      <row>
       <entry>Partitioning model</entry>
       <entry><ul id="ul_tkj_lh2_zs">
         <li>GSIs are part of the index service, thus GSI independently partitions using the new
          multidimensional scaling capabilities and the services architecture<b
           id="docs-internal-guid-59685f01-1944-b9b4-f068-50ef9a478494">.</b></li>
        </ul><ul id="ul_tqn_kg2_zs">
         <li>Each GSI can only be placed in one node.</li>
         <li>GSIs require manual partitioning to prevent hot spots.</li>
         <li>GSIs can respond without requiring scatter-gather operations.</li>
        </ul> For more information, see "GSI and
         index partitioning" under <xref href="global-secondary-indexes.dita">Global secondary indexes</xref>. </entry>
       <entry>
        <ul id="ul_iq1_dh2_zs">
         <li>Views are auto-partitioned based on the data partitioning which is based on the hashing
          of the keys to vBuckets and vBucket placement.</li>
         <li>View queries need to perform expensive scatter-gather operations.</li>
        </ul>
       </entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>Scaling model</entry>
       <entry>GSIs are part of the index service. Using the new multidimensional scaling
        capabilities, you (as an administrator) can choose to deploy indexes on hardware that is
        tuned for indexing.</entry>
       <entry>Views are scaled with the data service and thus cannot be independently
        scaled.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>Performance characteristics</entry>
       <entry>N1QL queries that require singleton lookups or range scans can process scans on GSI
        without scatter-gather operations if the relevant indexes are available for the
        query.</entry>
       <entry>Views are partitioned based on data distribution and document keys, thus requiring
        scatter-gather operations for the same type of queries. Network based processing can be more
        expensive than local in-memory processing because scatter-gather operations are  generally
        much slower. As the node count of the cluster increases, views require a wider fan-out and
        hence a more network based processing.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>Managed cache</entry>
       <entry>GSIs come with a managed cache that can provide higher performance during index
        maintenance and index scans.</entry>
       <entry>Views depend on the file system cache and can be impacted by fluctuations in the
        underlying operating system.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>Storage engine <note>For more information on the differences between Couchstore and ForestDB, see "Couchstore versus ForestDB" under <xref href="storage-architecture.dita">Storage Architecture</xref>.</note></entry>
       <entry>GSIs use ForestDB for storage. </entry>
       <entry>Views use Couchstore for storage.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>High availability</entry>
       <entry>GSIs require multiple indexes with identical definitions to be manually placed on
        multiple nodes.</entry>
       <entry>Views provide built-in replicas with smart placement.</entry>
      </row>
     </tbody>
    </tgroup>
   </table></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
