<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="eventing_operations">
  <title> Terminologies in Couchbase Functions</title>
  <shortdesc> While using Functions, the following terminologies are used: </shortdesc>
  <body>
    <section id="section_hny_sz4_m2b"><title>Functions</title> Functions offers a computing paradigm
      using which developers can handle data changes. Functions are either OnUpdate or OnDelete.
      Resources are managed at or above a Function level, and the containing Function scopes the
      state of all handlers</section>
    <section id="section_k12_5z4_m2b">
      <title>Handler</title>
      <p> A stateless, short-running code-fragment that reacts to a specified event. One or more
        handlers together constitute a Function. A handler must execute from start to finish, before
        a specified timeout-duration. Currently, OnUpdate and OnDelete are the two supported
        handlers. Couchbase Functions support multiple OnUpdate/OnDelete handlers during the
        Function definition process. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_tyn_wz4_m2b">
      <title>Statelessness</title>
      <p> The persistent state of a Function is captured by entities listed below, while any state
        that appears on the execution stack is ephemeral. </p>
      <p>
        <ul id="ul_dtx_11p_m2b">
          <li>The metadata bucket (which will eventually be a system collection). </li>
          <li>The document being observed and its Extended Attributes. </li>
          <li>The storage-providers bound to the Function. </li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_k5h_c1p_m2b">
      <title>Buckets</title>
      <p> Every Function definition needs two distinct buckets: source bucket and metadata bucket. </p>
      <p>The Functions use a source bucket to listen to data changes. The Function handler code
        polls the source bucket for data mutations. Multiple Functions can use the same source
        bucket. </p>
      <p>Metadata bucket stores internal artifacts and checkpoint information. The metadata bucket
        provides better restartability semantics when the eventing nodes is offline. Ensure that
        your Function handler code does not write any data to this bucket. </p>
      <p>The Functions can in turn trigger data mutations, to avoid a cyclic generation of events,
        ensure that you carefully consider options when you select the source and destination
        buckets. When you are using a series of handlers, ensure that destination buckets to which
        event handlers perform a write operation, do not have other event handlers configured to
        listen and track data mutations. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_l1j_21p_m2b">
      <title>Workers</title>
      <p> Workers can be defined as an execution unit that is assigned a group of vBuckets. The
        worker units are used mostly during Function execution. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_mzd_l1p_m2b">
      <title>Bindings</title>
      <p>Bindings are constructs that allow the separating of environment-specific variables from
        the handler source code such as bucket-names, external endpoint URLs, and credentials.
        Bindings allow Functions to be developed without source-code changes while working on
        different workflows. Using bindings, you can port source code from different environments
        such as Test-to-Test, Test-to-Production, or Production-to-Production environments without
        making code changes. During Function definition, while configuring bindings ensure that the
        bindings do not perform a write operation on the source bucket. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_zjr_m1p_m2b">
      <title>Function Settings</title>
      <p> The log levels, script timeout, and workers allocation are additional options available
        during the Function definition process. </p>
      <p>
        <ul id="ul_nzw_41p_m2b">
          <li>Log Levels: Use log levels to determine the granularity of log messages. </li>
          <li>Script Timeout: Script Timeout provides a timeout option to terminate a non-responsive
            Function. </li>
          <li>Workers: Workers allocate the number of worker threads for a specific Function.
            <p/>For a defined Function, Couchbase Server limits the maximum number of workers to 10.
            This upper limit is configured for system optimization purposes. In the Function
            definition, if the number of workers exceeds a set threshold, then the system
            automatically generates a warning message. However, this warning message does not
            prevent deployment of the Function.</li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_kdm_s1p_m2b">
      <title>Deploy</title>
      <p> The deploy operation activates a Function. Multiple Functions can be deployed in a
        cluster. Couchbase server performs source validations before deploying a Function, and only
        valid Functions get deployed. The deploy operation transpiles the code and creates the
        executable v8 artifacts. The source code of a deployed Function cannot be edited. The
        Function must be in a deployed status to process events. Once you deploy a Function,
        depending on the Feed Boundary conditions, the Function execution starts processing the data
        mutations. Deployment of a Function triggers actions such as creating of necessary metadata,
        initiating worker processes, calculating initial partitions, and creating checkpoints of
        processed stream data. To edit a deployed Function, you must first un-deploy the Function.
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_pdn_t1p_m2b">
      <title>Feed Boundary</title>
      <p> Feed Boundary is a time milestone used during a Function configuration. Using the Feed
        Boundary option, you can either invoke a Function on all the data present in the cluster or
        choose to invoke a Function during future instances of data mutation, post Function
        deployment. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ngz_51p_m2b">
      <title>Undeploy</title>
      <p> An undeploy operation causes the Function to stop processing events. All allocated
        worker-processes get terminated, and any runtime resources acquired by the Function gets
        released. Functions in an undeployed state allow editing of the Function handler code. An
        undeployed Function retains the memory of its prior deployment, if necessary. Newly created
        handlers start in an undeployed state. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_wfw_w1p_m2b"><title>Delete</title> When a Function gets deleted, the source
      code implementing the Function, all processing checkpoints, and other artifacts in the
      metadata provider are purged. Before deleting, make sure you have undeployed the Function.
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
