<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="eventing_api">
  <title> Functions REST API </title>
  <shortdesc> The Functions REST API, available by default at port 8096, provides the methods available to work with Couchbase
    Functions. </shortdesc>
  <body>
    <section id="section_kzm_vyy_m2b">
      <p><note/>The Functions REST API is a Beta feature intended for development purposes only, do
        not use them in production; no Enterprise Support is provided for Beta features. </p>
      <p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_z5x_vyy_m2b">
          <title>Functions API</title>
          <tgroup cols="3">
            <colspec colname="newCol1" colnum="1" colwidth="1"/>
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="2" colwidth="1.5"/>
            <colspec colname="newCol3" colnum="3" colwidth="3"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>HTTP Method</entry>
                <entry><b>URI Path</b></entry>
                <entry><b>Description</b></entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>POST </entry>
                <entry dir="ltr"><filepath>/api/v1/functions/[function_name]</filepath></entry>
                <entry dir="ltr">Create a single Function. The Function name in the body must match
                  that on the URL. Function definition includes current settings.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>POST</entry>
                <entry dir="ltr">
                  <filepath>/api/v1/functions/</filepath></entry>
                <entry dir="ltr">Creates multiple Functions. Function names must be unique. When
                  multiple Functions have the same name, an error is reported.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>GET</entry>
                <entry dir="ltr">
                  <filepath>/api/v1/functions</filepath></entry>
                <entry dir="ltr">View a list of Functions. Provides a list of Functions available in
                  the cluster. The list includes both the deployed and the undeployed
                  Functions.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>DELETE</entry>
                <entry dir="ltr"><filepath> /api/v1/functions/[function_name]</filepath></entry>
                <entry dir="ltr">Deletes a specific Functions from the cluster.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>DELETE</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p dir="ltr">
                    <filepath>/api/v1/functions</filepath></p>
                </entry>
                <entry dir="ltr">Deletes multiple Functions from the cluster.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>POST</entry>
                <entry dir="ltr"
                  ><filepath>/api/v1/functions/[function_name]/settings</filepath></entry>
                <entry dir="ltr">Edit Function settings. During an edit, settings provided are
                  merged. Unspecified attributes retain their prior values.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>POST</entry>
                <entry dir="ltr"><filepath>/api/v1/config</filepath></entry>
                <entry>
                  <p dir="ltr">Modify global configuration. During an edit, settings provided are
                    merged. Unspecified attributes retain their prior values. The response indicates
                    whether the Eventing service must be restarted for the new changes to take
                    effect. </p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>POST</entry>
                <entry dir="ltr"
                  ><filepath>/api/v1/functions/[function_name]/settings</filepath></entry>
                <entry>
                  <p dir="ltr">Deploys a Function. A deploy CURL example is provided for
                    reference.</p>
                  <p dir="ltr">Sample API:
                    <codeblock>curl -XPOST -d '{"deployment_status":true,"processing_status":true}' 
http://Administrator@192.168.1.5:8096/api/v1/functions/[sample_name]/settings</codeblock>
                  </p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>POST</entry>
                <entry dir="ltr"
                  ><filepath>/api/v1/functions/[function_name]/settings</filepath></entry>
                <entry>
                  <p dir="ltr">Undeploys a Function. An undeploy CURL example is provided for
                    reference.</p>
                  <p dir="ltr">Sample API:
                    <codeblock>curl -XPOST -d '{"deployment_status":false,"processing_status":false}' 
http://Administrator@192.168.1.5:8096/api/v1/functions/[sample_name]/settings</codeblock></p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>POST</entry>
                <entry dir="ltr"
                  ><filepath>/api/v1/functions/[function_name]/settings</filepath></entry>
                <entry dir="ltr">Deploys a Function with the provided code. </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
