<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="eventing_examples">
  
  <title> Adding a Function</title>
  
  <shortdesc> To add a new Function, proceed as follows:</shortdesc>
  
  <body id="body_thf_try_m2b">
    <section id="eventing_examples_preparations">
      <ol>
        <li> From the Couchbase Web Console > <b>Eventing</b> page, click <b>ADD FUNCTION</b>.</li>
        <li> In the <b>ADD FUNCTION</b> dialog, for individual Function elements provide the below
          information: <p>
            <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_ngd_5qy_m2b">
              <title/>
              <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
                <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="3.46*"/>
                <thead>
                  <row>
                    <entry><b>Elements</b></entry>
                    <entry><b>Description</b></entry>
                  </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                  <row>
                    <entry dir="ltr">Source Bucket</entry>
                    <entry>
                      <p dir="ltr">The name of a bucket currently defined on the cluster. </p>
                      <p dir="ltr">For more information on Source Bucket, refer to x-ref. </p>
                    </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry dir="ltr">Metadata Bucket</entry>
                    <entry>
                      <p dir="ltr">The name of a bucket currently defined on the cluster. This
                        bucket stores artifacts and checkpoint information.</p>
                      <p dir="ltr">For more information on Metadata Bucket, refer to x-ref. </p>
                    </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry dir="ltr">Function Name</entry>
                    <entry dir="ltr">A name, for the Function you are creating.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry dir="ltr">Description</entry>
                    <entry dir="ltr">A description of the Function you are creating. This is
                      optional.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry dir="ltr">Settings</entry>
                    <entry>
                      <p dir="ltr">The available settings are: </p>
                      <ul id="ul_pc4_vqy_m2b">
                        <li><b>Log Level: </b>The granularity at which messages are logged. The
                          options (available from the arrows control at the right of the field) are
                          Info, Error, Warning, Debug, and (the default). This logging attribute is
                          function-specific and is not applicable for the Eventing Service in
                          general.</li>
                        <li><b>Workers: </b>The number of worker threads to be allocated to the
                          Function. The default is 3. </li>
                        <li><b>Script Timeout: </b>The number of seconds that should elapse before
                          the script times out. The default is 60.</li>
                      </ul>
                    </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry dir="ltr">Bindings</entry>
                    <entry>
                      <p dir="ltr">One or more strings, each of which is used as a reference to an
                        existing bucket, from within the JavaScript code of your Function.</p>
                      <p dir="ltr">For more information on Bindings, refer to x-ref.</p>
                    </entry>
                  </row>
                </tbody>
              </tgroup>
            </table>
          </p></li>
        <li>Click <b>Next: Add Code</b>. The Function name dialog appears. The Function name dialog
          initially contains a placeholder code block. You will substitute your actual Function code
          in this block.</li>
        <li>To return to the Eventing screen, click <b>Eventing</b>. </li>
        <li>Click on the Function name. Additional controls are now displayed: The controls are:<p>
            <ul id="ul_knx_jry_m2b">
              <li><b>Delete</b>: Deletes the Function from the system.</li>
              <li>
                <b>Export</b>: Exports the Function as a JSON document.</li>
              <li><b>Deploy</b>: Deploys the Function, making it active across the cluster.</li>
              <li><b>Edit JavaScript</b>: Allows edits to be made on the Function, in an edit
                dialog.</li>
            </ul>
          </p></li>
        <li>Click <b>Deploy</b>. This displays the C<b>onfirm Deploy Function</b> dialog. The Feed
          Boundary determines whether documents previously in existence needs to be included in the
          Function's activities: the options are <b>Everything</b> and <b>From now</b>. </li>
        <li>Click <b>Deploy</b> Function. This deploys the Function and returns you to the main
          Eventing screen. The display indicates that the Function is now deployed and running. From
          this point, your defined Function will run, first, on all existing documents; and
          subsequently, whenever a creation or mutation occurs. </li>
        <li>Click <b>Undeploy</b> to undeploy a Function. </li>
      </ol>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
