<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_qxc_5hh_x5">
  <title><cmdname>create</cmdname></title><shortdesc>Create a backup repository for the database before you start a backup.</shortdesc>
  <body>
   
    
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <codeblock>./backup create --dir [directory-name] --name [repository-name] [options]   </codeblock>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>The <cmdname>create</cmdname> command requires a path to the location where the backup
        repository will be created as well as a name for the repository. Optional parameters for
        this command can be used to customize the backup configuration. By default, the created
        backup configuration will back up all buckets; including all data, indexes, and bucket level
        configuration from the cluster.</p>
      
    </section>
    
    
    <section><title>Options</title>
     
      <p>The following are the command options:<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1"
          id="table_c4r_qwv_x5">
          <title>create options</title>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.13*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Option</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--dir /[directory name]</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Path of the backup archive. REQUIRED</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--name [REPOSITORY-NAME]</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Name of the backup repository. REQUIRED</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--include-buckets [BUCKET-NAMES]</codeph></entry>
                <entry>A comma separated list of buckets to back up. Only buckets in this list are
                  backed up.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--exclude-buckets [BUCKET-NAMES]</codeph></entry>
                <entry>A comma separated list of buckets to exclude from backups. All buckets except
                  for the ones specified will be backed up.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--disable-bucket-config</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Disables backing up the bucket config information</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--disable-views</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Disables backing up view definitions</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--disable-gsi-indexes</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Disables backing up GSI index definitions</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--disable-ft-indexes</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Disables backing up Full Text index definitions</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>--disable-data</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Disables backing up cluster data</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table></p>
      
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Examples</title>
      
      <p>To create a backup repository named <codeph>travel</codeph> in the
          <filepath>/data/couchbase/backups</filepath> directory with the default configuration:
        <codeblock>./backup create --dir /data/couchbase/backups --name travel</codeblock></p>
    
      <p>To create a backup repository named travel in the
          <filepath>/data/couchbase/backups</filepath> directory with a configuration that backs up
        all data, indexes, and bucket configuration only from the <codeph>travel-samples</codeph>
        bucket:
        <codeblock>./backup create --dir /data/couchbase/backups --name travel --include-buckets travel-sample</codeblock></p>
      
 
      <p>To create a backup repository named <codeph>travel</codeph> in the
          <filepath>/data/couchbase/backups</filepath> directory with a configuration that backs up
        all indexes and bucket configuration only from the <codeph>travel-samples</codeph> bucket:
        <codeblock>./backup create --dir /data/couchbase/backups --name travel --include-buckets travel-sample --disable-data</codeblock></p>
  
      <p>To create a backup repository named <codeph>travel</codeph> in the
          <filepath>/data/couchbase/backups</filepath> directory with a configuration that backs up
        all data, GSI indexes, and full-text indexes from all buckets:
        <codeblock>./backup create --dir /data/couchbase/backups --name travel --disable-bucket-config --disable-views</codeblock></p>
      
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
