<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ml2_rdw_tv">
  <title>Document Operations</title>
  <body>
        <p>You can access documents in Couchbase using the <apiname>Bucket</apiname> class
            (constructed via <codeph>cluster.openBucket()</codeph>). You can retrieve documents
            using the <apiname>get()</apiname> and <apiname>lookupIn</apiname> methods, and mutate
            documents using the <apiname>upsert()</apiname>, <apiname>insert()</apiname>,
                <apiname>replace()</apiname>, and <apiname>mutateIn()</apiname> methods.</p>
        <section>
            <title>Document Input Types</title>
            <p>Documents can be anything convertible to JSON (<codeph>JSON.stringify</codeph>).
                Simply pass the object or array to the mutation operation, and the SDK will convert
                it to JSON and store it on the server. Do not pass already-serialized JSON to the
                SDK, as the SDK will serialize it again.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Callbacks for operations</title>
            <p>Due to the non-blocking nature of the node.js SDK and node.js in general, the results
                of all operations are signalled by callbacks. Callbacks are specified as the last
                parameter to any operation. The callback signature is
                generally<codeblock>function(err, result) {
    if (err) {
        console.error("Got error!: %j", err);
    } else {
        console.log("Got result: %j", result);
    }
}</codeblock></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Additional Options</title>
            <p>Additional options may be passed to some methods using an object.</p>
            <p><i>Mutation</i> operations (<apiname>upsert</apiname>, <apiname>insert</apiname>,
                    <apiname>replace</apiname>, <apiname>mutate_in</apiname>) operations also accept
                a <xref href="../core-operations.dita#devguide_kvcore_generic/expiry"
                    >TTL (expiry)</xref> value (<parmname>expiry</parmname>) which will instruct the
                server to delete the document after a given amount of time. This option is useful
                for transient data (such as sessions). By default documents do not expire. See <xref
                    href="../core-operations.dita#devguide_kvcore_generic/expiry"/>
                for more information on expiration.</p>
            <p>Some mutation operations can also accept a <xref
                    href="../concurrent-mutations-cluster.dita">CAS</xref>
                    (<parmname>cas</parmname>) value to protect against concurrent updates to the
                same document. See <xref href="../concurrent-mutations-cluster.dita"
                    >CAS</xref> for a description on how to use CAS values in your application. Note
                that the CAS value is represented internally as <codeph>Buffer</codeph>.</p>
        </section>
        <section><title>Creating and updating full documents</title>Documents may be created and
            updated using the <apiname>Bucket.upsert()</apiname>,
            <apiname>Bucket.insert()</apiname>, and <apiname>Bucket.replace()</apiname> family of
            methods. Read more about the difference between these methods at <xref
                href="../core-operations.dita#devguide_kvcore_generic/crud-overview"
            /> in the Couchbase developer guide.<p>These methods accept two mandatory arguments:<ul
                    id="ul_gyc_zfw_tv">
                    <li><parmname>key</parmname>: The ID of the document to modify. This should be a
                        string.</li>
                    <li><parmname>value</parmname>: The desired new value of the document. This may
                        be anything that can be serialized as JSON.</li>
                </ul></p><p>Additional options can be specified in the options:<ul
                    id="ul_btf_lpg_vt">
                    <li><parmname>cas</parmname>: The CAS value for the document. If the CAS on the
                        server does not match the CAS supplied to the method, the operation will
                        fail with a <apiname>couchbase.exceptions.KeyExistsError</apiname> error.
                        See <xref href="../concurrent-mutations-cluster.dita"/> for more
                        information on the usage of CAS values.</li>
                    <li><parmname>expiry</parmname>: Specify the expiry time for the document. If
                        specified, the document will expire and no longer exist after the given
                        number of seconds. See <xref
                            href="../core-operations.dita#expiry"/> for more
                        information.</li>
                    <li><parmname>persist_to</parmname>, <parmname>replicate_to</parmname>: Specify
                            <xref href="../durability.dita#concept_gyg_14s_zs"
                            >durability requirements</xref> for the operations.</li>
                </ul></p><p>When the operation is complete the callback will be invoked, and if
                successful, the <codeph>result</codeph> (the second callback argument) will contain
                the new <xref href="../concurrent-mutations-cluster.dita#concept_iq4_bts_zs"
                    >CAS</xref> value of the document. If the document was not mutated successfully,
                the callback's first argument (<codeph>err</codeph>) will contain appropriate error
                information. See <xref href="handling-error-conditions.dita#concept_ibc_p1w_tt"/>
                for more information on error types and how to handle
                them.</p><codeblock outputclass="language-python">bucket.insert('document_name', {'some': 'value'}, function(err, result) {
    if (!err) {
        console.log("stored document successfully. CAS is %j", result.cas);
    } else {
        console.error("Couldn't store document: %j", err);
    }
});</codeblock><p>Output
                on
                success:<screen>stored document successfully. CAS is "216000820675072"</screen><screen>Couldn't store document: {"message":"The key already exists in the server. If you have supplied a CAS then the key exists with a CAS value different than specified","code":12}</screen></p><p>If
                the document being inserted already exists, the error will be set and its
                    <varname>code</varname> field will be set to
                    <varname>couchbase.errors.keyAlreadyExists</varname>. If your application simply
                wants to set the value ignoring whether it exists or not, use the
                    <apiname>upsert()</apiname> method.</p></section>
        <section><title>Retrieving full documents</title><p>Documents may be retrieved using the
                    <apiname>Bucket.get()</apiname> method. The <apiname>get()</apiname> method
                requires the document ID to retrieve, and the callback to invoke with the result of
                the operation.</p>When the operation is complete the callback is invoked. If
            successful, you may access actual document may be access by using
                <codeph>result.value</codeph> and the CAS using <codeph>result.cas</codeph>.<p>The
                document will be a native javascript type resulting from the parsing of the stored
                server value.</p>Upon failure, the error (first callback argument) will be populate
            with an appropriate <codeph>code</codeph> and <codeph>message</codeph>. If the document
            does not exist, the <codeph>code</codeph> will be
                <varname>couchbase.errors.keyNotFound</varname><codeblock outputclass="language-python">bucket.get('document_id', function(err, result) {
    if (err) {
        if (err.code == couchbase.errors.keyNotFound) {
            console.log('Key does not exist');
        } else {
            console.log('Some other error occurred: %j', err);
        }
    } else {
        console.log('Retrieved document with value: %j', result.value);
        console.log('CAS is %j', result.cas);
    }
});</codeblock><p>Sample
                output:
            </p><screen>Retrieved document with value: ["Hello","World"]
CAS is "166079006573056"</screen></section>
        <section><title>Removing full documents</title>Documents may be removed using the
                <apiname>Bucket.remove()</apiname> method. This method takes the document ID as a
            mandatory positional:<ul id="ul_ksh_3rg_vt">
                <li><parmname>key</parmname>: The ID of the document to remove</li>
            </ul>Some additional options:<ul id="ul_rw2_rrg_vt">
                <li><parmname>cas</parmname>: Only remove the document if the <xref
                        href="../concurrent-mutations-cluster.dita">CAS</xref> has not
                    changed.</li>
            </ul></section>
        <section><title>Modifying expiraton</title><xref
                href="../core-operations.dita#devguide_kvcore_generic/expiry"
                >Document expiration</xref> can be performed using the
                <apiname>Bucket.touch()</apiname> and <apiname>Bucket.getAndTouch</apiname> methods.
            You can also set the <parmname>expiry</parmname> parameter for methods which support
            it:<codeblock spectitle="expiry with upsert">bucket.upsert('deleteMe', {'delete': 'me'}, {'expiry': 1}, function(err){
    bucket.get('deleteMe', function(err, result) {
        console.log('Have item: %j', result.value);
        console.log('Will attempt get later on..');
        setTimeout(function(){
            bucket.get('deleteMe', function(err, result){
                console.log('Got error: %s', err.message);
            })
        }, 3500);
    })
});</codeblock><screen>Have item: {"delete":"me"}
Will attempt get later on..
Got error: The key does not exist on the server</screen><codeblock spectitle="Using getAndTouch">bucket.getAndTouch('some_document', 2, function(err, result) {
    console.log('Got value: %j', result.value);
    console.log('Will try again..');
    setTimeout(function(err, result){
        bucket.get('some_document', function(err, result) {
            console.error('Got error: %s', err.message);
        });
    }, 3000);
});</codeblock></section>
        <section><title>Atomic document modifications</title>Additional atomic document
            modifications can be performing using the node.js SDK. You can modify a <xref
                href="../core-operations.dita#devguide_kvcore_generic/devguide_kvcore_append_prepend_generic"
                >counter document</xref> using the <apiname>Bucket.counter()</apiname> method. You
            can also use the <apiname>Bucket.append</apiname> and <apiname>Bucket.prepend</apiname>
            methods to perform raw byte concatenation</section>
        <section><title>Batching Operations</title>All operations performed in the node.js SDK are
            inherently batched between event loop iterations. In simple terms, this means that there
            is no added network performance for using any form of multi operation.<p>As a
                convenience, the node.js SDK provides an <apiname>Bucket.getMulti</apiname> which
                accepts multiple keys and returns their results.</p></section>
        <section><title>Operating with sub-documents</title><note type="tip">See <xref
                    href="../subdocument-operations.dita#subdoc-operations"/> for an
                overview</note><hazardstatement>
                <messagepanel id="messagepanel_edy_qwm_qv">
                    <typeofhazard>Sub-Document API is experimental</typeofhazard>
                    <howtoavoid>Sub-Document is a feature to be released in Couchbase 4.5. It is
                        available as an experimental feature in 4.5 pre-release builds.</howtoavoid>
                </messagepanel>
            </hazardstatement>Sub-document operations save network bandwidth by allowing you to
            specify <i>paths</i> of a document to be retrieved or updated. The document is parsed on
            the server and only the relevant sections (indicated by <i>paths</i>) are transferred
            between client and server. You can execute <xref
                href="../subdocument-operations.dita#subdoc-operations"
                >sub-document</xref> operations in the node.js SDK using the
                <apiname>Bucket.mutateIn</apiname>, and <apiname>Bucket.lookupIn</apiname>
                methods.<p>Each of these methods accepts a <parmname>key</parmname> as its mandatory
                first argument and returns a builder object which can be used to add one or more
                    <i>command specifications</i> specifying a specifying an operation and a
                document field operand. To submit the operation, invoke the
                    <apiname>execute()</apiname> method on the builder, passing it the callback to
                be
                invoked.<codeblock>bucket.lookupIn('some_document').
    get('path.to.get').
    exists('check.path.exists').
    execute(function(err, fragment) {
    // ...
});</codeblock></p><p>The
                callback function is invoked with an <codeph>error</codeph> and a
                    <codeph>fragment</codeph>. The fragment is a <apiname>DocumentFragment</apiname>
                object containing the fragments of the document (corresponding to each path). In
                contrast with a normal callback which returns a single error and result, each
                operation in the builder has its own result and status. You can use
                    <codeph>fragment.contentByIndex</codeph> or
                    <codeph>fragment.content(path)</codeph> or
                    <codeph>fragment.contentByIndex(index)</codeph> to retrieve the result for an
                individual path/command. If a path has an error, the SDK will throw an
                exception.</p><p>Unlike other operations as well, both the <codeph>error</codeph>
                and <codeph>fragment</codeph> can be set. If the <codeph>error</codeph> is set, and
                    <codeph>error.code</codeph> is <varname>couchbase.errors.checkResults</varname>
                then it means that at least one command has failed. If the top-level error code is
                something else, it means that the document itself could not be
                accessed.<codeblock>bucket.lookupIn('some_document').
    get('path.to.get').
    exists('check.path.exists').
    execute(function(err, result) {
    if (!err || err.code == couchbase.errors.checkResults) {
        for (var i = 0; i &lt; 2; i++) {
            try {
                console.log('Result for path index %d: %j', i, result.contentByIndex(i));
            } catch (e) {
                console.error('Error for path index %d: %s', i, e.message);
            }
        }
    } else {
        console.error("Couldn't access document: %s", err.message);
    }
});</codeblock>You
                can also mutate documents in a similar manner:</p><p>
                <codeblock>bucket.mutateIn('some_document').
    upsert('path.to.upsert', 'value', true).
    remove('path.to.del').
    execute(function(err, frag) {
    if (!err || err.code == couchbase.errors.checkResults) {
        for (var i = 0; i &lt; 2; i++) {
            try {
                frag.contentByIndex(i);
            } catch (e) {
                console.error('Error for index %d: %s', i, e.message);
            }
        }
    } else {
        console.error('Top-level document error: %j', err)
    }
});</codeblock>
            </p></section>
        <section><title>Formats and Non-JSON Documents</title><note type="tip">See <xref
                    href="../nonjson.dita#devguide_nonjson"/> for a general overview
                of using non-JSON documents with Couchbase</note>All JavaScript types which can be
            represented as JSON may be passed unmodified to a storage function, and be received via
            the <apiname>get</apiname> method without any additional modifications.<p>You can
                implement a custom transcoder if you would like to serialize documents to/from a
                format other than JSON, or if you would like to interact with other SDKs which use
                non-JSON serialization formats. See
            <apiname>Bucket.setTranscoder()</apiname>.</p></section>
    </body>
</topic>
