<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="managing-cluster-node">
  <title>Managing Clusters</title>
  <body>
        <p conref="../shared/flush-info-pars.dita#toplevel/management-intro"/>
        <p>The Node SDK also comes with some convenience functionality for common Couchbase management requests.</p>
        <p>You can manage Couchbase clusters by using the <codeph>ClusterManager</codeph> and <codeph>BucketManager</codeph>
          interfaces that are available through the <apiname>manager(login, password)</apiname> and <apiname>manager()</apiname> methods exposed in <codeph>Cluster</codeph> and
          <codeph>Bucket</codeph> instances.</p>

    <section><title>Creating and removing buckets</title>
        <p>Creating buckets and removing buckets is performed, for example,  when running unit tests.</p>
        <p>The <apiname>ClusterManager</apiname> class may be used to create and delete buckets from the Couchbase cluster.
            It is instantiated through the <apiname>Cluster</apiname>'s <apiname>manager()</apiname> method, providing the
            administrative username and password.</p>
        <codeblock>var clusterManager = cluster.manager("Administrator", "123456")</codeblock>

        <p>To create a bucket, use the <apiname>createBucket(name, opts, callback)</apiname> method. The <parmname>opts</parmname>
        represents the options of the bucket, an object with the following structure (shown with default values):</p>
        <codeblock>var myOpts = {
    authType: 'sasl',
    bucketType: 'couchbase',
    ramQuotaMB: 100,
    replicaNumber: 1,
    saslPassword: null,
    flushEnabled: null
  };</codeblock>

        <p>The parameters correspond to those in the REST API, most notably:</p>
        <ul><li><parmname>bucketType</parmname>: Defaults to <codeph>"couchbase"</codeph>, but can also be
            <codeph>"memcached"</codeph> to create a cache bucket.</li>
            <li><parmname>ramQuotaMB</parmname>: How much memory should each node use for the bucket. This number is specified in megabytes.</li>
            <li><parmname>saslPassword</parmname>: If specified, makes this bucket password protected, forcing future connects
                (using the <apiname>Bucket</apiname>) to specify the <parmname>password</parmname> parameter. Must be
                used together with the <parmname>authType: 'sasl'</parmname> (which is the default).</li>
            <li><parmname>flushEnabled</parmname>: Enables the <apiname>BucketManager#flush()</apiname> operation to be performed
                on this bucket (see the <xref href="#managing-cluster-node/flushing"/> section below).</li>
            <li><parmname>replicaNumber</parmname>: The number of replicas to use for the bucket.</li>
            <li><parmname>replicaIndex</parmname>: Wether or not to replicate indexes.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>The following example creates an "hello" bucket with only the <parmname>flushEnabled</parmname> differing from the
            defaults shown above:</p>
        <codeblock>var manager = cluster.manager("Administrator", "123456");
manager.createBucket("hello", { flushEnabled: true }, function(err) {
    console.log('Creation of hello bucket failed:', err);
});</codeblock>

<!-- TODO does the Node SDK automatically wait for the bucket to be ready, or is there some polling involved?
     if polling, the shared content <p conref="../shared/flush-info-pars.dita#toplevel/after-creation"/> should be added -->

        <p>You can completely delete a bucket using the <apiname>removeBucket(name)</apiname> method:
        <codeblock>manager.removeBucket("hello", function(err) {
    console.log('Could not delete hello bucket: ', err);
});</codeblock></p></section>

    <section id="flushing">
        <title>Flushing Buckets</title>
        <p conref="../shared/flush-info-pars.dita#toplevel/flush-intro"/>
        <p>You may flush a bucket in the Node SDK by using the <apiname>BucketManager</apiname>'s <apiname>flush()</apiname>
            method:<codeblock>var bucketMgr = bucket.manager();
bucketMgr.flush(new function(err, status) {
    if (status) {
        console.log('Bucket flushed');
    } else {
        console.log('Could not flush bucket: ', err);
    }
});</codeblock></p>
        <p>The <apiname>flush</apiname> operation may notably fail if the bucket does not have flush enabled.</p>
    </section>

    <!-- TODO uncomment when index management is available -->
    <!--<section>
        <title>N1QL Index Management</title>
        <p conref="../shared/flush-info-pars.dita#toplevel/index-management"/>
        <p>You can manage indexes in the Node SDK using the <apiname>BucketManager</apiname>
            class, with its various N1QL related methods: <apiname>listN1qlIndexes()</apiname>, <apiname>createN1qlIndex(...)</apiname>, etc...</p>-->
        <!-- TODO: example -->
    <!--</section>-->


    <section>
        <title>View Management</title>
        <p>Views are stored in design documents. The SDK provides convenient methods to create, retrieve, and remove
            design documents. To set up views, you create design documents that contain one or more view definitions, and then
            insert the design documents into a bucket.</p>
        <p>Each view in a design document is represented by a name and a set of MapReduce functions.
            The mandatory map function describes how to select and transform the data from the bucket,
            and the optional reduce function describes how to aggregate the results.</p>
<!-- TODO use shared content when available instead of paragraphs above -->
        <p>To create a view, you can use the <codeph>manager()</codeph> method of your bucket instance to retrieve a
          <codeph>BucketManager</codeph> instance. After you have a <codeph>BucketManager</codeph> instance, invoke the
          <codeph>upsertDesignDocument</codeph> method to store the design document for later querying.</p>
        <p>The following example creates or updates a "ddocname" design document with a single "by_name" view on the "hello"
            bucket (because it is created through hello's <apiname>BucketManager</apiname>):</p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">var bucket = cluster.openBucket("hello");
var bucketMgr = bucket.manager();

var ddocdata = {
views: {
by_name: {
map: [ 'function(doc, meta) {',
     '  if (doc.type &amp;&amp; doc.type == "beer") {',
     '    emit(doc.name, null);',
     '  }',
     '}'
   ].join('\n')
},
}
};
bucketMgr.upsertDesignDocument('ddocname', ddocdata, function(err) {
console.log('Insertion of design document completed with error:', err);
});</codeblock>

        <p>Alternatively, you can just pass a JavaScript function into the design document manipulation methods and they
        will automatically be serialized to JavaScript. For instance, the following code snippets are
        functionally equivalent:</p>
        <codeblock>// Using a string
var ddocdata = {
views: {
by_name: {
map: [ 'function(doc, meta) {',
     '  if (doc.type &amp;&amp; doc.type == "beer") {',
     '    emit(doc.name, null);',
     '  }',
     '}'
   ].join('\n')
},
}
};

// Using a function
var ddocdata = {
views: {
by_name: {
map: function(doc, meta) {
     if (doc.type &amp;&amp; doc.type == "beer") {
       emit(doc.name, null);
     }
   }
},
}
};</codeblock>

        <note type="warning">When you want to update an existing document to either introduce a new view, modify an existing
            view or delete an existing view, you can use the <codeph>upsertDesignDocument</codeph> method.
            <p>The catch is that this method needs the list of views in the document to be exhaustive, meaning that if you just create the new <codeph>View</codeph> definition as previously and add it to a new <codeph>DesignDocument</codeph> that you upsert, all your other views will be erased!</p>
            <p>The solution is to perform a <codeph>getDesignDocument(ddoc)</codeph>, add your view definition to the DesignDocument's <codeph>views()</codeph> list, then upsert it. This also works with view modifications, provided the change is in the <codeph>map</codeph> or <codeph>reduce</codeph> functions (just reuse the same name for the modified <codeph>View</codeph>).</p></note>

            <p>Here is an example of deleting a view from an existing document, which follows the same principle:</p>
            <codeblock>var bucket = cluster.openBucket();
var bucketMgr = bucket.manager();

function deleteView(ddocname, viewname, callback) {
    bucketMgr.getDesignDocument(ddocname, function(err, ddoc, meta) {
        if (err) {
            return callback(err);
        }

        //we have the current exhaustive list of views, delete the one we want to remove
        delete ddoc.views[viewname];

        //update the new exhaustive design document
        bucketMgr.upsertDesignDocument(ddocname, ddoc, function(err) {
            if (err) {
                return callback(err);
            }

            callback(null);
            });
        });
}

deleteView('ddoc', 'view', function(err) {
    console.log('Deletion completed with error:', err);
});</codeblock>

        <p>To remove a complete design document from a bucket, pass its name to the <codeph>removeDesignDocument</codeph>
            method.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>