<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_esq_3td_5v">
    <title>N1QL Queries Using the Node.js SDK with Couchbase Server</title>
    <titlealts><navtitle>N1QL from the SDK</navtitle></titlealts>
  <body>
        <p>To issue N1QL queries you must pass an <apiname>couchbase.N1qlQuery</apiname> object to
            the <apiname>Bucket.query()</apiname> function which will then send the query to the
            cluster and invoke the passed callback.</p>
        <p>You can create a query object by using the
                <apiname>couchbase.N1qlQuery.fromString()</apiname> constructor. Once the query has
            been created you can then modify some query options such as its <xref
                href="../n1ql-query.dita#toplevel/consistency">consistency</xref> and <xref
                href="../n1ql-query.dita#toplevel/prepare-stmts">adhoc</xref> properties using the
                <apiname>N1qlQuery.consistency()</apiname> and <apiname>N1qlQuery.adhoc()</apiname>
            setters.<codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">var N1qlQuery = couchbase.N1qlQuery;
// ...
query = N1qlQuery.fromString('SELECT name, email FROM default LIMIT 10');
bucket.query(query, function(err, rows, meta) {
  for (row in rows) {
    console.log('Name: %s. Email: %s', row.name, row.email);
  }
});</codeblock></p>
        <p>The callback is invoked with an error, an array of rows, and additional metadata about
            the result and execution. Generally, you should check the error before iterating over
            the rows.</p>
        <section><title>Placeholders</title>Queries can be parameterized, allowing you to specify
            placeholders within the query string and then specify them as discreet parameters when
            executing the
            query.<codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">query = N1qlQuery.fromString('SELECT name, email FROM users WHERE name=$1');
bucket.query(query, ['Monty Python'], function(err, rows) {
  // ...
});</codeblock>In
            the above, the second argument passed is the parameter list for the placeholders.
            Placeholders can either be specified as <codeph>$1</codeph>, <codeph>$2</codeph>,
                <codeph>$3</codeph>, etc for positional parameters, which must be passed 
            in an array;
            or they can be specified as <codeph>$name</codeph>, <codeph>$email</codeph>, etc for
            named parameters, which must be passed as an object. A named or positional parameter is a 
            placeholder for a value in the WHERE, LIMIT or OFFSET clause of a query. </section>
        <section>
            <title>Streaming rows</title>
            <p>If you are expecting a large result set from the server you can omit passing the
                callback to the <apiname>query()</apiname> function and instead register to the
                returned object's <codeph>row</codeph>, <codeph>end</codeph>, and
                    <codeph>error</codeph> events. The <codeph>row</codeph> handler is invoked
                whenever new rows arrive from the cluster, so you don't need to buffer all rows in
                memory to process them. The <codeph>error</codeph> handler is invoked in the case of
                an error and the <codeph>end</codeph> handler is invoked when the response has fully
                been
                received.<codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">var q = N1qlQuery.fromString('SELECT * FROM `travel-sample` LIMIT 10');
var req = bucket.query(q);
req.on('row', function(row) {
  console.log('Got a row');
});
req.on('error', function(err) {
  console.error('Got error %j', err);
});
req.on('end', function(meta) {
  console.log('All rows received. Metadata is %j:', meta);
});</codeblock><screen>Got a row
Got a row
Got a row
Got a row
Got a row
Got a row
Got a row
Got a row
Got a row
Got a row
All rows received. Metadata is {"requestID":"79914eb3-6204-4dc7-b9e6-b4680b6509a0","signature":{"*":"*"},"status":"success","metrics":{"elapsedTime":"8.631682ms","executionTime":"8.593926ms","resultCount":10,"resultSize":3002}}:</screen></p>
        </section>
      
        <section>
          <title>CAS via N1QL</title>
            <p>For N1QL queries, the Node.js SDK accepts CAS values as strings. This is necessary as CAS values are 
                too large to be represented by numerical values in JavaScript. The following example illustrates 
                working with CAS values as strings.<codeblock>'use strict';

var couchbase = require('couchbase');

var cluster = new couchbase.Cluster('couchbase://localhost');
cluster.authenticate('Administrator', 'password');


var bucket = cluster.openBucket('travel-sample');

// Insert a document with a random x value
bucket.upsert('test-doc', {x: Math.round(Math.random()*10000000)}, function(err, res) {
  if (err) {
    throw err;
  }

  var qs = 'SELECT t.*, TOSTRING(META().cas) AS `_cas` FROM `travel-sample` t WHERE META().id="test-doc"';
  var q = couchbase.N1qlQuery.fromString(qs);
  q.consistency(couchbase.N1qlQuery.Consistency.REQUEST_PLUS);
  bucket.query(q, function(err, rows) {
    if (err) {
      throw err;
    }

    if (rows.length !== 1) {
      throw new Error('unexpected number of rows');
    }

    console.log('Query Result:', rows[0]);

    var cas = rows[0]._cas;
    var doc = rows[0];
    delete(doc._cas);
    doc.y = doc.x;

    bucket.replace('test-doc', doc, {cas: cas}, function(err) {
      if (err) {
        throw err;
      }

      bucket.get('test-doc', function(err, res) {
        if (err) {
          throw err;
        }

        console.log('Updated:', res.value);

        process.exit(0);
      });
    });
  });
});</codeblock></p>
      </section>
    </body>
</topic>
