<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_tvx_nhq_44">
    <title>MapReduce from the SDK</title>
    <shortdesc>You can use MapReduce views to create queryable secondary indexes in Couchbase Server. </shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>The primary index for documents is the key you use when performing the standard CRUD methods. </p>
        <p>The following example queries a <codeph>by_name</codeph> view in a beer design document. This
            view checks whether a document is a beer and has a name. If it does, it emits the beer's name
            into the index. This view allows beers to be queried for by name. For example, it's now
            possible to ask the question "What beers start with A?"</p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">function (doc, meta) {
  if (doc.type &amp;&amp; doc.type == "beer" &amp;&amp; doc.name) {    
     emit(doc.name, null);
  }
}</codeblock>
        <p>Querying a view through the Node.js client is performed through the
            <codeph>ViewQuery</codeph> class that is available as a top-level object.</p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">var couchbase = require('couchbase');
var ViewQuery = couchbase.ViewQuery;

var query = ViewQuery.from('beer', 'by_name');</codeblock>
        <p>A <codeph>ViewQuery</codeph> object enables you to query the view and specify various
            available options for the query. Once you have the query ready for execution, pass it to the
            <codeph>query</codeph> method of the your Bucket instance:</p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">var myBucket = myCluster.openBucket();
myBucket.query(query, function(err, results) {
  for(i in results)
    console.log(results[i]);
});</codeblock>
        <p>You can modify your view results by specifying various options before executing the
            <codeph>query</codeph> method. Here is an example that skips the first six items and limits
            the results to three items:</p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">var query = ViewQuery.from('beer', 'by_name').skip(6).limit(3);
myBucket.query(query, function(err, results) {
  for(i in results)
    console.log(results[i]);
});</codeblock>
        <p>If you are interested in performing a geospatial view, simply use
            <codeph>SpatialQuery</codeph> as your root rather than <codeph>ViewQuery</codeph>.</p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">var SpatialQuery = couchbase.SpatialQuery;

var query = SpatialQuery.from('designdoc', 'spatialview').limit(10);
myBucket.query(query, function(err, results) {
  for(i in results)
    console.log(results[i]);
});</codeblock>
    </conbody>
</concept>
