<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ll4_zt5_qx">
  <title>Frequently Asked Questions</title>
  <body>
    <p><b>Q: What’s the relationship between N1QL and SQL++?</b></p>
    <p> SQL++ is a formal <xref href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1405.3631" format="html"
        scope="external">language specification</xref> with well-defined semantics that was designed
      with the goal of unifying clean, powerful, declarative query languagesvarious query languages
      for handling semi-structured data like you find with a . N1QL is the query language used by
      the Couchbase Server query service, Couchbase SQL++ is the language used in CBAS. </p>
    <p><b>Q: Can I use this with memcached buckets?</b></p>
    <p>No, CBAS relies on DCP and JSON formatted documents. It can only be used with JSON
      coming from a Couchbase bucket.</p>
    <p><b>Q: I got an error message like this complaining about types?</b>
    </p>
    <p>In this case, you’ve gotten an error message because you’re trying to apply a
      function to something that doesn’t have functions. This may be caused by ambiguous identifiers
      that get resolved to something different from what you intended. You can try to specify the
      identifier fully to resolve that ambiguity.</p>
    <p><xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-21184" format="html"
        scope="external">https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-21184</xref></p>
  </body>
</topic>
