<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_i15_yz2_px">
  <title>Introduction</title>
  <body>
    <p>Couchbase Analytics Service (CBAS, affectionately called "sea bass") is a developer preview
      of a parallel data management capability for Couchbase Server. CBAS is designed to efficiently
      run complex queries over many records. By complex queries, we mean large ad hoc join, set,
      aggregation, and grouping operations, any of which may result in long running queries, high
      CPU usage, high memory consumption, and excessive network latency in data fetching and cross
      node coordination. </p>
    <p>Analytics queries can be predetermined or ad hoc, and can be cheap or expensive depending on
      how much data processing they need. Performance challenges can arise when queries access large
      numbers of documents and when queries are not supported by a secondary index, as often happens
      with ad hoc analytics such as you may perform using a visualization tool. </p>
    <p>CBAS is designed to support truly ad hoc queries even if a scan is necessary, in a reasonable
      amount of time. If a query is expensive, CBAS is still prefered even when the query is
      predetermined since CBAS supports efficient parallel query processing and bulk data
      handling.</p>
    <p>The CBAS approach to analytics has significant advantages compared to alternatives:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><b>Common data model</b>: Natively supports the same rich, flexible-schema document data
        model used in Couchbase Server, rather than force fitting your data into an RDBMS model. </li>
      <li><b>Workload isolation</b>: Operational query latency and throughput are protected from
        slow downs due analytical query workload - without the complexity of operating a separate
        analytical database. </li>
      <li><b>High data freshness</b>: CBAS uses DCP, a fast memory-to-memory protocol that Couchbase
        Server nodes use to synchronize data among themselves. Because of this, analytics run on
        data that’s extremely current, without extract, transform, load (ETL) or other hassles and
        delays.</li>
    </ul>
    <section id="sql-query-lang"><title>SQL++ Query Language</title><p>CBAS is programmed using the
        SQL++ query language, which is a next-generation declarative query language. SQL++ has much
        in common with SQL, but it also includes a small number of extensions that address the
        different data models the two languages were designed to serve. Compared to SQL, SQL++ is
        much newer and targets the nested, schema-optional or even schema-less world of modern NoSQL
        systems. </p><p>Now, you may wonder why CBAS uses a query language other than N1QL, the
        query language used by the Couchbase Server’s query service. The answer is, this is a
        temporary situation. Both SQL++ and N1QL are quite similar, and in fact N1QL was inspired by
        the open language specification SQL++ and is a proper subset of that specification. In the
        long term, the two query languages will merge so that Couchbase Server can be queried using
        one single query language. </p>For more details about SQL++ language, refer to the
        <draft-comment author="shilpa.lele">Add a SQL++ cross-reference
      here.</draft-comment>section. </section>
  </body>
  
</topic>
