<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1360">
  <title>Port numbers and accessing different buckets</title><shortdesc>Any communication (stats or data) to a port other than <codeph>11210</codeph> will result
    in the request going through a Moxi process.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>In the Couchbase cluster,  all stats requests will be aggregated across the cluster and might
      produce some inconsistencies or confusion when looking at stats that are not
      “aggregatable”.</p>
    <p>In general, it is best to run all your stat commands against port <codeph>11210</codeph>,
      which will always give you the information for the specific node that you are sending the
      request to. It is a best practice to aggregate the relevant data across nodes at a higher
      level in your script or monitoring system.</p>
    <p>When you run the commands, and all stats commands without supplying a bucket name and
      password, they will return results for the default bucket and produce an error if one does not
      exist.</p>
    <p>To access a bucket other than the default, you will need to supply the bucket name and
      password at the end of the command. Any bucket created on a dedicated port does not require a
      password.</p>
    <p>The TCP/IP port allocation on Windows by default includes a restricted number of ports
      available for client communication. </p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <link href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa560610(v=bts.20).aspx" scope="external"
        format="html">
        <linktext>MSDN: Avoiding TCP/IP Port Exhaustion</linktext>
      </link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
