<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2232">
  <title>Disk write queue</title>
  <shortdesc>Disk writing is implemented as a 2-queue system: comitted to DRAM and then queued to be
    written to disk</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>Couchbase Server is a persistent database, which means that monitoring of the system requires
      an understanding of how we interact with the disk subsystem.</p>
    <p>Since Couchbase Server is an asynchronous system, any mutation operation is committed first
      to DRAM and then queued to be written to disk. An acknowledgment is returned to the client
      almost immediately so that it can continue working. </p>
    <p>Disk writing is implemented as a 2-queue system and is tracked by the stats.</p>
    <p>The first queue is where mutations are immediately placed. Whenever there are items in that
      queue, our “flusher” (disk writer) comes along and takes all the items off of that queue,
      places them into the other one and begins writing to disk. Since disk performance is so
      dramatically different from RAM, new writes can be continuously accepted while the system is
      (possibly slowly) writing new ones to the disk.</p>
    <p>The flusher will process 250k items at a time, and then perform a disk commit and continue
      this cycle until its queue is drained. When it has completed everything in its queue, it will
      either grab the next group from the first queue or sleep until there are more items to
      write.</p>
    
    <section><title>Monitoring the disk write queue</title>
      <p>There are two ways to monitor the disk queue, at a high-level from the Web UI or at a
        low-level from the individual node statistics.</p>
      <ol>
        <li>From the Web UI, click on <uicontrol>Monitor Data Buckets</uicontrol> and select the
          particular bucket that you want to monitor.</li>
        <li>Click <uicontrol>Configure View</uicontrol> in the top right corner and select the
            <wintitle>Disk Write Queue</wintitle> statistic. Closing this window shows that there is
          a new mini-graph.</li>
      </ol>
      <p>This graph is showing the Disk Write Queue for all nodes in the cluster. To get a deeper
        view into this statistic, monitor each node individually using the <codeph>stats</codeph>
        output. The statistics to watch are <codeph>ep_queue_size</codeph> (where new mutations are
        placed) and <codeph>flusher_todo</codeph> (the queue of items currently being written to
        disk).</p></section>
  </body>
  

</topic>
