<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_b5g_f5f_ps">
<<<<<<< HEAD
 <title>Couchbase Server concepts</title>
	<shortdesc>
	  Couchbase Server is an open source distributed NoSQL document database that provides low latency data management for large scale, interactive online applications. It is designed to scale, especially horizontally, with ease and without performance degradation. Built with a strong emphasis on reliability, high availability, and simple management, Couchbase serves data non-stop with minimal human intervention. 
	</shortdesc>
=======
 <title>Key Concepts</title>
	<shortdesc> Couchbase Server is an open source distributed NoSQL document database that provides
    low latency data management for large scale, interactive online applications. It is designed to
    scale with ease and without performance degradation. Built with a strong emphasis on
    reliability, high availability, and simple management, Couchbase serves data non-stop with
    minimal human intervention. </shortdesc>
>>>>>>> f02991819b4e4029cd336f1117de1bbc95146f44
 <conbody>
   <p>Couchbase Server can be used as a <ul id="ul_tqn_kj5_gv">
        <li>managed cache tier <draft-comment author="amarantha">add examples</draft-comment></li>
        <li>a key-value store</li>
        <li>a document database</li>
      </ul>Couchbase Server along with <xref
        href="http://www.couchbase.com/nosql-databases/couchbase-mobile" format="html"
        scope="external">Couchbase Mobile</xref> enables enterprises to increase business agility,
      achieve faster time to market, and operate at a global scale while reducing costs. Couchbase
      helps meet the requirements of multiple <xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/use-cases"
        format="html" scope="external">use cases</xref> ranging from enterprise to Cloud
      infrastructure, to Internet of Things and big data, to mobile devices.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
