<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_kl3_y5f_ps">
 <title>Indexing</title>
 <shortdesc>Couchbase Server speeds up data access with indexes. Indexing is especially important
  because items in production Couchbase clusters are distributed across many nodes, and any item may
  need to be accessed in order to satisfy a query. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>Couchbase supports a variety of global secondary indexes and view-based indexes that may be
   used to improve performance at the cost of some processing overhead to maintain the index. Since
   index data is smaller than the documents themselves, it is often possible to hold an entire index
   on one node rather than distributing the index across multiple nodes. Doing this can make
   querying a node a local access operation, reducing network access times. Couchbase provides the
   <cmdname>EXPLAIN</cmdname> command that enables detailed exploration of query execution and index use that can help
   guide decisions about what to index. In order to further reduce index processing overhead and
   satisfy a request as quickly as possible, Couchbase employs many clever strategies such as
   deferred index building (create multiple indexes with a single scan) and flexible index
   consistency settings for controlling staleness.</p>
   
   <p>Despite their name, Global Secondary Indexes (GSI) can be used to create high performance
   primary or secondary indexes. Couchbase global secondary indexes are partitioned separately from
   data. Even though Couchbase data is distributed among nodes, for best performance developers and
   administrators typically create indexes on a selected set of nodes running the index service.
   Keeping the entire index on one node means that operational complexity remains constant as the
   cluster grows and in case a covering index is used, it also ensures that requests to the index
   can be satisfied using local data without incurring network latency.</p>
 <ul>
  <li><b>Composite Indexes</b> optimize access for queries that require data from multiple attributes. </li>
   <li><b>Covering Indexes</b> include all of the information needed to satisfy a query without accessing the data, so they are very fast.</li> 
   <li><b>Filtered Indexes</b> (or partial indexes) perform filtering that allows users to create an
    index on just a subset of the data by using the WHERE clause. This has the effect of reducing
    the index size and associated maintenance impacts in order to remain scalable and performant
    when handling large datasets.</li>  
   <li><b>Function-based Indexes</b> result from computing the value of an expression over a range of documents.</li>
   <li><b>Sub-document Indexes</b> are used to index embedded structures and complex objects. Sub-document indexes can significantly improve query performance on serialized JSON objects.</li> 
   <li><b>Incremental MapReduce Views</b> are typically used as indexes. When building a MapReduce
    view, a developer can custom tailor it to optimize support for a specific set of queries,
    usually complex queries that perform sorting and aggregation to support real-time analytics over
    very large datasets. For example, a MapReduce view index would be useful in building an
    interactive report on sales data that can be explored by date, item, or region. A single
    MapReduce view index can be created by emitting separate rows that simultaneously aggregate the
    sales data according to each of the three separate dimensions.</li>
   <li><b>Spatial Views</b> speed up access to multidimensional numeric data and are created using
    Spatial MapReduce. The spatial index is an R-Tree, a structure capable of representing multiple,
    potentially overlapping regions. Geometry information is supported using the GeoJSON
    specification. Spatial views can also be created on numeric data to define a multidimensional
    cube (hyper-cube), such as a relation of customer ages, incomes, and lifetime spend. The
    advantage of a spatial view compared to a compound index is that the spatial view can serve
    queries with the dimensions in any order. See <xref
     href="http://www.couchbase.com/nosql-resources/presentations/introducing-spatial-views-for-location-aware-applications-with-couchbase-server-4.0.html"
     format="html" scope="external">this talk</xref> for more information.</li>
   <li><b>Full Text Indexes</b> allow developers to easily add full-text search capabilities to
    their application using CBFT (developer preview), search use cases without deploying additional
    components, which reduces operational complexity.</li>
 </ul><p>For more information on how the indexers and index services work, see <xref href="../architecture/views-indexing-index-service.dita"></xref>.</p>
 </conbody>
 <!--<related-links>
  <link href="../architecture/views-indexing-index-service.dita"></link>
 </related-links>-->
</concept>
