<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ukb_wgg_ps">
 <title>Security controls for Couchbase Server</title>
	<shortdesc>
	 Couchbase Server provides several security controls
	 including authentication, authorization, auditing and encryption to secure your database and applications.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>By using the Couchbase security
   controls, and best practices [Link], you can secure your Couchbase deployment in production. </p>
  <section><title>Authentication</title>
   <p>Before applications connect to the server, they need to identify themselves to Couchbase.
    Couchbase Server supports SASL and non-SASL buckets to store your data. To verify the identity
    of administrators and applications, Couchbase Server supports a challenge-response
    authentication mechanism (CRAM) based on the HMAC-MD5 algorithm. Additionally, the enterprise
    version of Couchbase Server supports LDAP authentication for administrators connecting to
    through the administrative web console. See <xref
     href="../security/security-authentication.dita#topic_ztr_rnm_lq"/> for more details.</p>
  
  
  </section>
  <section><title>Authorization for administrators and applications</title>
   <p>Authorization determines what privileges a principal has to resources and operations. For SASL
    buckets, knowing the password controls whether or not applications have access to the bucket.
    Administrators have full control over the Couchbase cluster. By setting up a read-only
    administrator in Couchbase, you can configure an administrator to have a read-only view of the
    cluster information without access to the data. Using Couchbase enterprise and LDAP, you can
    configure multiple administrators and read-only administrators. See <xref
     href="../security/security-authorisation.dita#topic_sbf_kpm_lq"/> for more details.</p>
  
  </section> 
  <section><title>Auditing</title>
   <p>Auditing describes who, did, what, when and how. With auditing enabled, auditors can monitor
    the actions carried out by administrators in the Couchbase cluster. Auditing is essential to
    comply with several regulatory compliance regulations and internal security policies. To read
    more about auditing, see <xref href="../security/security-auditing.dita#topic_a5p_npm_lq"/>.</p>
   
  </section>
  <section><title>Encryption</title>
   <p>By using encryption at multiple levels, you can protect your sensitive data in Couchbase </p>
  
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Data encryption at the application layer</dt>
    <dd>Data model employed by Couchbase Server allows you to store
     both JSON documents as well as binary data (for example an encrypted blob). To encrypt
     a document or document attributes, you can use a commercial solution such as the Vormetric
     Data Security Platform, without the complexity and risk of implementing an in-house
     encryption and key management solution.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Data encryption in motion</dt>
    <dd>Using SSL, clients can securely communicate with the server
     to access data. Administrators can also securely connect to the admin console and manage
     the cluster through the browser, even over a public network. Couchbase also provides
     encryption over SSL for cross data-center replication (XDCR) traffic. You can read more
     about SSL in Couchbase here [Link]</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Data encryption at rest</dt>
     <dd>You can encrypt sensitive data on disk to ensure that only authorized processes can get
      access. There are third-party libraries available that can be used to
      encrypt data in Couchbase transparently, without any application changes. For example: <dl>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>Vormetric Data Security Platform </dt>
        <dd>The Vormetric Data Security Platform provides disk and file-level encryption in addition
         to application level encryption. </dd>
       </dlentry>
      </dl><dl>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>LUKS based encryption on Linux</dt>
        <dd>Various Linux distributions ship with LUKS and provide full disk encryption options. For
         example, here’s how to get started with Ubuntu’s full-disk encryption, courtesy of Ubuntu’s
         community help documentation.</dd>
       </dlentry>
      </dl><dl>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>Bitlocker Drive Encryption</dt>
        <dd>Bitlocker Drive Encryption is a feature available on Windows Server 2008 and 2012 that
         provides disk encryption. Properly configured disk encryption, when used alongside good
         security best practices, can help ensure compliance with standards, including PCI-DSS, and
         HIPAA. </dd>
       </dlentry>
      </dl></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Security Best Practices</dt>
     <dd>Security best practices provide a layered approach to security through a set of guidelines
      that you can follow at the network layer, database layer, application layer, and when running
      Couchbase Server in cloud environments. To read more about Couchbase Server's security best
      practices, see <xref href="../security/security-best-practices.dita#concept_rt3_dg1_1q"/>. </dd>
    </dlentry>
    
   </dl>
  </section>
 
 </conbody>
</concept>
