<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_eqq_rmd_yv">
    <title>CRUD Document Operations Using the PHP SDK with Couchbase Server</title>
    <titlealts><navtitle>Document Operations</navtitle></titlealts>
  <body>

    <section id="operationbasics">
            <title>Operation Basics</title>
            <p>Operations use basic PHP data types and most of the PHP data types that can be
                serialized via the JSON functions are supported by default. Recursive structures
                cannot be serialized. You may alternatively implement your own transcoders which
                modify the method by which your documents are serialized to Couchbase. See <xref
                    href="../nonjson.dita#devguide_nonjson/transcoders"
                    >Transcoders</xref> for more details.</p>
            <p>If an operation is successful, it will return <apiname>CouchbaseMetaDoc</apiname>
                that contains the <varname>value</varname> of the document (if returned by
                operation) as well as the <xref
                    href="../concurrent-mutations-cluster.dita#concept_iq4_bts_zs"
                        ><varname>cas</varname></xref> value. If an operation fails, a
                    <apiname>CouchbaseException</apiname> is thrown, which may then be caught.</p>
        </section>

    <section id="creatingdocuments"><title>Creating and Updating Full Documents</title><p>You can
                create documents by using the <apiname>insert()</apiname> or
                    <apiname>upsert()</apiname> methods and update them using the
                    <apiname>replace()</apiname> method. See <xref
                    href="../core-operations.dita#devguide_kvcore_generic/crud-overview"
                /> for more details. </p><p>The following example shows how to create a new document
                with the <codeph>insert()</codeph>
            method:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-php">$res = $myBucket->insert('document_name', array('some'=>'value'));</codeblock>You
            can specify additional options as a third argument to the <apiname>insert</apiname>,
                <apiname>upsert</apiname>, and <apiname>replace</apiname> functions. The options are
            specified as an associative
            array:<codeblock>$bucket->upsert($key, $doc, array("expiry" => 300));</codeblock>Allowed
            options are:<ul id="ul_gfz_mh1_1w">
                <li><parmname>cas</parmname>: The CAS value for the document. If the CAS on the
                    server does not match the CAS supplied to the method, the operation will fail
                    with a <apiname>CouchbaseException</apiname> with a code of
                        <apiname>COUCHBASE_KEY_EEXISTS</apiname> error. See <xref
                        href="../concurrent-mutations-cluster.dita"/> for more information on
                    using the CAS values. Keep in mind that this case applies only to
                        <apiname>replace()</apiname></li>
                <li><parmname>expiry</parmname>: Specifies the expiry time for the document. If
                    specified, the document will expire and no longer exist after the given number
                    of seconds. See <xref href="../core-operations.dita#expiry"/> for
                    more information.</li>
                <li><parmname>persist_to</parmname>, <parmname>replicate_to</parmname>: Specifies
                        <xref href="../durability.dita#concept_gyg_14s_zs">durability
                        requirements</xref> for the operations.</li>
            </ul></section>


    <section><title>Retrieving Documents</title><sectiondiv id="regularreads"><p>You can retrieve
                    documents by using the <codeph>get()</codeph>
                method.</p><codeblock outputclass="language-php">var_dump($bucket->get("new_document"));</codeblock>
                Sample output from the example is as follows:
                <screen>object(CouchbaseMetaDoc)#6 (4) {
  ["error"]=>
  NULL
  ["value"]=>
  object(stdClass)#5 (1) {
    ["foo"]=>
    string(3) "bar"
  }
  ["flags"]=>
  int(33554438)
  ["cas"]=>
  string(9) "eh5m98g0k"
}</screen></sectiondiv>The
                <apiname>get()</apiname> method returns a <apiname>CouchbaseMetaDoc</apiname>
            object. To get the actual value, use the object's <apiname>value</apiname> property. The
                <xref href="../concurrent-mutations-cluster.dita#concept_iq4_bts_zs">CAS
                value</xref> is encoded as a string and accessible through <apiname>cas</apiname>
            property. <note>Items stored as associative arrays (such as
                    <codeph>$bucket->upsert(docid, array("prop1" => "value1"))</codeph> are
                retrieved as PHP <apiname>stdObject</apiname> objects; you must reference fields
                using <codeph>$result->value->property</codeph> rather than
                    <codeph>$result->value["property"]</codeph></note><p>In some instances you may
                wish to read from a replica node when the <xref
                    href="failure-considerations.dita#topic_wxg_cwb_mv">active node is
                    unavailable</xref>. This can be done using the
                    <apiname>getFromReplica()</apiname>. </p></section>

    <section><title>Removing Documents</title>

 <p>You can delete documents by using the <apiname>remove()</apiname> method.</p>
        <p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-php">$bucket->remove('document_name');</codeblock>
            </p>

        <p>You may pass a second argument containing options to the <apiname>remove()</apiname>
                method. This is passed as an array with the option name as the key and the option
                value as the array value. Recognized options are:<ul id="ul_idh_ly1_1w">
                    <li><parmname>cas</parmname>: Specify the <xref
                            href="../concurrent-mutations-cluster.dita#concept_iq4_bts_zs"
                            >CAS value</xref> to use. This will ensure that the document is not
                        removed if the CAS value differs. You may obtain the CAS value from
                            <apiname>CouchbaseMetaDoc::cas</apiname>, as a return value of a
                        successful operation.</li>
                    <li><parmname>persist_to</parmname>, <parmname>replicate_to</parmname>: Specify
                            <xref href="../durability.dita#concept_gyg_14s_zs"
                            >durability requirements</xref>. In this case, the SDK will check that
                        the items have been properly <i>deleted</i> from the replicas.</li>
                </ul></p>



    </section>
        <section><title>Modifying the Expiration</title>Setting <xref
                href="../core-operations.dita#devguide_kvcore_generic/expiry"
                >Document expiration</xref> can be performed using the <apiname>touch()</apiname>
            and <apiname>getAndTouch</apiname> methods. These methods accept an expiry value as
            their second
            parameter:<codeblock>$cb->upsert('expires', "i'm getting old...", array("expiry" => 5));
sleep(6)
$cb->get('expires');</codeblock><screen>PHP Fatal error:  Uncaught exception 'CouchbaseException' with message 'LCB_KEY_ENOENT: The key does not exist on the server' in [CouchbaseNative]/CouchbaseBucket.class.php:196
Stack trace:
#0 [CouchbaseNative]/CouchbaseBucket.class.php(196): _CouchbaseBucket->get('expires', Array)
#1 /private/tmp/dummy.php(7): CouchbaseBucket->get('expires')
#2 {main}
  thrown in [CouchbaseNative]/CouchbaseBucket.class.php on line 196</screen>Document
            expiration can also be set using the <apiname>upsert</apiname> family of methods which
            accept an optional <parmname>expiry</parmname> key in their options arrays.</section>

    <section id="batching">
            <title>Batching Operations</title>
            <p><xref href="../batching-operations.dita#concept_qfq_5jg_1t">Bulk operations</xref>
                may help you perform operations more efficiently and quicker by optimizing how
                commands are sent on the network.</p>
            <p>Bulk operations may be performed by passing an array as the first argument to one of
                the <apiname>get()</apiname>, <apiname>upsert()</apiname>,
                    <apiname>insert()</apiname>, <apiname>replace()</apiname> and other key-value
                methods.</p>
            <p>When these methods are passed an array as input, they return an array as output, with
                the array containing document IDs as its keys and their respective
                    <apiname>CouchbaseMetaDoc</apiname> objects as values.</p>
            <p>This method works identically to its singular counterpart but instead accepts an
                array of keys to retrieve and returns an object where the object key matches your
                document ID and the object value is the result that you would normally expect to see
                from a singular operation.</p>
            <p>For the <apiname>upsert()</apiname> family of methods, the top-level array value is a
                container for <i>options</i>. The most important option is
                    <parmname>value</parmname> which contains the actual value to be used as the
                document.</p>
            <p>The following example shows how to insert and retrieve multiple documents. The
                structure of each document is:<codeblock>{
    "email": &lt;....>
}</codeblock></p>
            <codeblock spectitle="Storing multiple documents">$results = $bucket->upsert(array(
    'foo' => array('value' => array('email' => 'foo@foo.com')),
    'bar' => array('value' => array('email' => 'bar@bar.com')),
    'baz' => array('value' => array('email' => 'baz@baz.com'))
    ));
foreach ($results as $docid => $metadoc) {
    echo("$docid => $metadoc->cas\n");
}</codeblock>
            <screen spectitle="Output">foo => 2gywu3yq6s
bar => 2hcxy0srv8
baz => 2hcxy0srv8</screen>
            <codeblock spectitle="Retrieving multiple documents">$results = $bucket->upsert(array("foo", "bar", "baz"));
    foreach ($results as $docid => $metadoc) {
    // Each document itself has a 'propname'
    echo "Result for $docid\n";
    var_dump($metadoc->value);
    echo "\n";
}</codeblock>
            <screen spectitle="Output">Result for foo
object(stdClass)#7 (1) {
  ["email"]=>
  string(11) "foo@foo.com"
}

Result for bar
object(stdClass)#9 (1) {
  ["email"]=>
  string(11) "bar@bar.com"
}

Result for baz
object(stdClass)#11 (1) {
  ["email"]=>
  string(11) "baz@baz.com"
}</screen>
        </section>

    <section>
            <title>Atomic Operations</title>
            <p>The PHP Couchbase SDK supports several operations that allow one-step, atomic changes
                to documents. These operations include <apiname>counter</apiname>,
                    <apiname>prepend</apiname>, and <apiname>append</apiname> functions.</p>
            <p>The <apiname>counter()</apiname> method enables you to use an <xref
                    href="../core-operations.dita#devguide_kvcore_generic/devguide_kvcore_counter_generic"
                    >atomic counter</xref>. The first argument is the document ID, and the second
                argument is the <i>delta</i> indicating by what amount the counter should be
                changed. You may also pass an array of options as the third argument:<ul
                    id="ul_h2r_chb_1w">
                    <li><parmname>initial</parmname>: Initialize the counter to this value if the
                        counter does not yet exist</li>
                    <li><parmname>expiry</parmname>: Set the <xref
                            href="../core-operations.dita#devguide_kvcore_generic/expiry"
                            >document expiration</xref> time</li>
                    <li><parmname>persist_to</parmname>, <parmname>replicate_to</parmname>: Specify
                            <xref href="../durability.dita#concept_gyg_14s_zs"
                            >durability requirements</xref></li>
                </ul></p>
            <codeblock>$result = $bucket->counter('counterId', 50, array('initial' => 100));
echo 'Current counter value is ' . $result->value . "\n";</codeblock>
            <p><xref
                    href="../core-operations.dita#devguide_kvcore_generic/devguide_kvcore_append_prepend_generic"
                    >Atomic byte concatenations</xref> can be performed using the
                    <apiname>append()</apiname> and <apiname>prepend()</apiname> methods. These
                operations are potentially destructive. Refer to the API documentation for more
                information.</p>
        </section>
      <section><title>Operating with sub-documents</title><note type="tip">Sub-Document API is available starting Couchbase Server version 4.5. See <xref href="../subdocument-operations.dita#subdoc-operations"/> for
          an overview.</note> <p>Sub-document operations save network bandwidth by allowing you to specify
                <i>paths</i> of a document to be retrieved or updated. The document is parsed on the
            server and only the relevant sections (indicated by <i>paths</i>) are transferred
            between client and server. You can execute <xref
                href="../subdocument-operations.dita#subdoc-operations">sub-document</xref>
            operations in the PHP SDK using the <apiname>retrieveIn</apiname>,
                <apiname>lookupIn</apiname>, and <apiname>mutateIn</apiname> methods.</p><p> Each of
                these methods accepts an <parmname>id</parmname> as its mandatory first argument and
                return builders <apiname>CouchbaseLookupInBuilder</apiname> and
                    <apiname>CouchbaseMutateInBuilder</apiname>
            </p><p>The builders have API to accumulate <i>command specifications</i> and run the
                full pipeline by the <apiname>execute()</apiname> call.
                <codeblock>$res = $bucket->lookupIn('docid')
              ->get('path.to.get')
              ->exists('check.path.exists')
              ->execute();

$res = $bucket->mutateIn('docid')
              ->upsert('path.to.upsert', $value, true)
              ->remove('path.to.del')
              ->execute();
</codeblock>For
                simply retrieving a list of paths, you may use the <apiname>retrieveIn</apiname>
                convenience
                method:<codeblock>$res = $bucket->retrieveIn('docid', 'path1', 'path2', 'path3')</codeblock></p><p>All
                sub-document operations return a special
                    <apiname>CouchbaseDocumentFragment</apiname> object. In contrast with a normal
                    <apiname>CouchbaseMetaDoc</apiname> object, a
                    <apiname>CouchbaseDocumentFragment</apiname> object contains multiple results
                with multiple statuses, one result/status pair for every input operation. You can
                access an individual result/status pair by addressing the <varname>value</varname>
                of <apiname>CouchbaseDocumentFragment</apiname> object as a mapping, and then using
                index position of the operation as the key:
                <codeblock>$res = $bucket->lookupIn('docid')
              ->get('foo')
              ->exists('bar')
              ->exists('baz')
              ->execute();

# First result
$res->value[0]</codeblock></p></section>
        <section><title>Non-JSON Documents and Transcoders</title><note type="tip">See <xref
                    href="../nonjson.dita#devguide_nonjson"/> for a general overview of using
                non-JSON documents with Couchbase</note><p>All PHP objects which can be represented
                as JSON may be passed unmodified to a storage function, and be received via the get
                method without any additional modifications, with only note that by default JSON
                encoder configured to produce <apiname>stdClass</apiname> instances instead of
                arrays. This behavior can be changed by modifying
                    <apiname>$COUCHBASE_DEFAULT_DECOPTS</apiname>:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-php">echo("default JSON decoder options: ");
var_dump($COUCHBASE_DEFAULT_DECOPTS);

$res = $bucket->get('foo');
var_dump($res->value);

echo("setting 'jsonassoc' to true\n");
$COUCHBASE_DEFAULT_DECOPTS['jsonassoc'] = true;

$res = $bucket->get('foo');
var_dump($res->value);</codeblock>
            Output:
                <screen>default JSON decoder options: array(1) {
  ["jsonassoc"]=>
  bool(false)
}
object(stdClass)#4 (1) {
  ["email"]=>
  string(11) "foo@foo.com"
}
setting 'jsonassoc' to true
array(1) {
  ["email"]=>
  string(11) "foo@foo.com"
} </screen><p>You
                can modify the default JSON encoders used by the PHP SDK using the
                    <apiname>setTranscoders</apiname> function. This function accepts a pair of
                encode and decode functions which are expected transform the raw document depending
                on the document flags.</p><p>The following is an example of a transcoder which will
                unconditionally transcode all documents as UTF-8 encoded JSON documents.
                <codeblock outputclass="language-php">$bucket->setTranscoders(
  function($value) {
    return array(json_encode($value), 0, 0);
  },
  function($value, $flags, $datatype) {
    return json_decode($value, true);
  }
);</codeblock></p>
<note type="tip">To make migration from 1.x SDK easier, use the JSON serializer. You may do this with settings in <codeph>php.ini</codeph>:
<codeblock outputclass="ini">
; make sure that the JSON extension is loaded before couchbase
extension=json.so
extension=couchbase.so
; select default serializer
couchbase.serializer = json
</codeblock>
Also, the serializer may be selected programmatically:
<codeblock outputclass="php">
$bucket = new Couchbase("localhost:8091", "", "", "default");
$bucket->setOption(COUCHBASE::OPT_SERIALIZER, COUCHBASE::SERIALIZER_JSON);
</codeblock>
</note>
        </section>
  </body>
</topic>
