<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="php_sdk_user_management">
    
    <title>
        Sample Code
    </title>
    
    <shortdesc>
        The PHP SDK now lets you create <i>users</i>, assign them <i>roles</i> and 
        associated <i>privileges</i>, and remove them from the system. 
    </shortdesc>
    
    <body>
        <section>
            <title>
                User-Management APIs
            </title>
            
            <p>
                Users who have been assigned the <b>Admin</b> role for the cluster are able
                to create, edit, and remove users. The PHP SDK provides APIs to support these
                activities. A high-level summary of the APIs can be found in
                <xref href="../sdk-user-management-overview.dita" scope="local" format="dita">User-Management</xref>.
            </p>
            
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>
                PHP User-Management Example
            </title>
            <p>
                The following code-example demonstrates how the user-management APIs can be used. It assumes that Couchbase Server is
                established on <codeph>localhost</codeph>; that the Full Administrator username and
                password are <codeph>Administrator</codeph> and <codeph>password</codeph> respectively;
                and that the <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> bucket is 
                installed. For information on installing the <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> bucket, see
                <xref href="../../settings/install-sample-buckets.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Install Sample Buckets</xref>.
            </p>
            
            <codeblock outputclass="language-php"><![CDATA[<?php

// Access the cluster that is running on the local host, authenticating with
// the username and password of the Full Administrator. This
// provides all privileges.

$cluster = new \Couchbase\Cluster('couchbase://localhost');

// Make sure that 'default' bucket exists.
echo("Authenticating as administrator.\n");
$cluster->authenticateAs("Administrator", "password");

// Create a user and assign roles.
echo("Upserting new user.\n");
$userSettings = new \Couchbase\UserSettings();
$userSettings
    ->password('cbtestuserpwd')
    // Roles required for the reading of data from the bucket.
    ->role('data_reader', 'travel-sample')
    ->role('query_select', 'travel-sample')
    // Roles required for the writing data into the bucket.
    ->role('data_writer', 'travel-sample')
    ->role('query_insert', 'travel-sample')
    ->role('query_delete', 'travel-sample')
    // Role required for the creation of indexes on the bucket.
    ->role('query_manage_index', 'travel-sample');
$cluster->manager()->upsertUser('cbtestuser', $userSettings);

// List current users.
echo("Listing current users.\n");
$listOfUsers = $cluster->manager()->listUsers();
for ($j = 0; $j < count($listOfUsers); $j++) {
    $currentUser = $listOfUsers[$j];

    echo("\n\nUSER #" . $j .":\n\n");

    if (array_key_exists('name', $currentUser)) {
        echo("User's name is: " . $currentUser['name'] . "\n");
    }
    echo("User's id is: " . $currentUser['id'] . "\n");
    echo("User's domain is: " . $currentUser['domain'] . "\n");

    $currentRoles = $currentUser['roles'];

    for ($i = 0; $i < count($currentRoles); $i++) {
        echo("User has the role: " . $currentRoles[$i]['role'] . ", applicable to bucket " .
             $currentRoles[$i]['bucket_name'] . "\n");
    }
}

// Access the cluster that is running on the local host, specifying
// the username and password already assigned by the administrator
echo("Authenticating as user.\n");
$cluster->authenticateAs("cbtestuser", "cbtestuserpwd");

// Open a known, existing bucket (created by the administrator).
echo("Opening travel-sample bucket as user.\n");
$travelSample = $cluster->openBucket("travel-sample");

// Create a N1QL Primary Index (but ignore if one already exists).
$travelSample->manager()->createN1qlPrimaryIndex('', true, false);

// Read out a known, existing document within the bucket (created
// by the administrator).
echo("Reading out airline_10 document\n");
$returnedAirline10doc = $travelSample->get("airline_10");
echo("Found: \n");
print_r($returnedAirline10doc);

// Create a new document.
echo("Creating new document as user.\n");
$airline11Object = [
    "callsign" => "MILE-AIR",
    "iata" => "Q5",
    "icao" => "MLA",
    "id" => 11,
    "name" => "40-Mile Air",
    "type" => "airline"
];

// Upsert the document to the bucket.
echo("Upserting new document as user.\n");
$travelSample->upsert("airline_11", $airline11Object);

echo("Reading out airline11Document as user.\n");
$returnedAirline11Doc = $travelSample->get("airline_11");
echo("Found: \n");
print_r($returnedAirline11Doc);

// Perform a N1QL Query.
echo("Performing query as user.\n");

$result = $travelSample->query(
    \Couchbase\N1qlQuery::fromString("SELECT * FROM `travel-sample` LIMIT 5")
);

echo("Query-results are:\n");
// Print each row returned by the query.
foreach ($result->rows as $row) {
    print_r($row);
}

// Access the cluster that is running on the local host, authenticating with
// the username and password of the Full Administrator. This
// provides all privileges.
echo("Re-authenticating as administrator.\n");
$cluster->authenticateAs("Administrator", "password");

// Remove known user.
echo("Removing user as administrator.\n");
$userToBeRemoved = "cbtestuser";
try {
    $cluster->manager()->removeUser($userToBeRemoved);
    echo("Deleted user " . $userToBeRemoved . ".\n");
} catch (\Couchbase\Exception $ex) {
    echo("Could not delete user " . $userToBeRemoved . ".\n");
}]]></codeblock>
            
            
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>
                API Reference
            </title>
            
            <p>
                The API reference is generated for each version. The API reference for version
                <keyword keyref="php-current-version"/> is at <xref keyref="php-api-link"/>
            </p>
            
        </section>
        
    </body>
    
</topic>
