<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_gyg_14s_zs">
    <title>Durability</title>
    <shortdesc>Data durability refers to the fault tolerance and persistence of data in the face of
        software or hardware failure. Even the most reliable software and hardware might fail at
        some point, and along with the failures, introduce a chance of data loss.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>Couchbase’s architecture guards against most forms of failure and protects against data
            loss. Buckets can be configured for replication, which makes additional copies of the
            data redundant and allows for the failure of copies: as long as the data is available
            somewhere, it is not lost.</p>
        <p>Data is also written to the disk, so in the case of a power outage or software crash,
            data can be retrieved from the disk during recovery.</p>
        <p>By default, Couchbase does not immediately replicate or write data to disk. After an item
            is modified, Couchbase immediately stores these modifications in memory on the node that
            is active for the given item. It then places the item inside a <term>disk queue</term>
            and a <term>replication queue</term>. The disk queue is served by another thread that
            persists the change to the disk, and the replication queue is served by another thread
            that replicates the change to any replicas within the cluster. This is done to improve
            performance, because modifying an item in memory is typically very quick, whereas
            sending an item over the network or writing it to the disk may take longer. In most
            cases items are replicated or persisted within a few milliseconds although the
            operations may take longer if the storage medium is slow or the network is
            congested.</p>
        <p>If a node fails, any modifications in its queues are lost, and when it recovers it will
            only contain modifications that had already been stored to disk. If the failed node is
            failed over, a replica node (more precisely, a replica for the given vBucket) will take
            it over, but will only know about the modifications that were successfully replicated to
            it: any modifications in the failed node’s replication queue are lost.</p>
        <section>
            <title>Durability requirements</title>
            <p>As mentioned before, modifications to items are done synchronously in memory and
                asynchronously on the disk and network. The synchronous modification in memory
                involves modifying the item and sending a success response to the client. This tells
                your application that the item has successfully been stored/modified, and allows
                your application to continue operating.</p>
            <p>Applications may specify requirements for durability to the Couchbase client to wait
                until the item has also been persisted and replicated. This ensures greater
                durability of your data against failure in certain edge cases, such as a slow
                network or storage media. Operations performed using the durability requirement
                options will appear as failures to the application if the modification could not be
                successfully stored to disk and/or replicated to replica nodes. Upon receiving such
                a failure response, the application may retry the operation or mark it as a failure.
                In any event, the application will never be under the mistaken assumption that the
                modification was performed when it fact it was lost inside one of the aforementioned
                queues.</p>
        </section>
        <section><title>Configuring durability</title><p>Durability requirements may be present as
                an extra option to mutation operations (such as upsert). The <term>level of
                    durability</term> is configurable depending on the needs of the
                    application.<note>See: Specifying durability requirements</note></p><p>The level
                of durability may be expressed in two values:<ol id="ol_tzb_w4s_zs">
                    <li>The <i>replication</i> factor of the operation: how many replicas must this
                        operation be propagated to. This is specified as the
                            <codeph>ReplicateTo</codeph> option in most SDKs.</li>
                    <li>The <term>persistence</term> of the modification: how many persisted copies
                        of the modified record must exist. Often found as a
                            <codeph>PersistTo</codeph> option.</li>
                </ol></p>Examples of these settings include:<ul id="ul_h5y_z4s_zs">
                <li>Ensure the modification is stored (on disk) on the active (master) node.</li>
                <li>Ensure the modification exists (in memory) on at least one replica.</li>
                <li>Ensure the modification is stored (on disk) on at least one replica.</li>
                <li>Ensure the modification exists (in memory) on all replicas.</li>
                <li>Ensure the modification is stored (on disk) on the active node, and exists (in
                    memory) on all replicas.</li>
                <li>Ensure the modification is stored (on disk) on the active node, and on all
                    replicas.</li>
            </ul><p>When an operation is propagated to a replica, it is first propagated to the
                replica’s memory and then placed in a queue (as above) to be persisted to the
                replica’s disk. You can control whether you desire the operation to only be
                propagated to a replica’s memory (<codeph>persist to</codeph>), or whether to wait
                until it is fully persisted to the replica’s disk (<codeph>replicate
                to</codeph>).</p><p><option>persist to</option> receives a value total to the number
                of nodes that an operation should be persisted. The maximum value is the number of
                replica nodes plus one. A value of 1 indicates master-only persistence (and no
                replica persistence).</p><p><option>replicate to</option> receives a value total to
                the number of <i>replica</i> nodes the operation should be replicated. Its maximum
                value is the number of replica nodes.</p></section>
        <section>
            <title>Performance considerations</title>
            <p>Note that Couchbase’s design of asynchronous persistence and replication is there for
                a reason: The time it takes to store an item in memory is several orders of
                magnitude quicker than persisting it to disk or sending it over the network.
                Operation times and latencies will increase when waiting on the speed of the network
                and the speed of the disk.</p>
            <p>A common requirement is that an operation should be propagated to at least one
                additional location before continuing. An additional copy can either be in the
                master’s storage (master persistence), or in the memory of a replica node. Depending
                on your environment either persistence or replication may be quicker: replication
                will be quicker on a 10GE network with commodity magnetic drives, but persistence
                will be quicker on a 1GE network with SSD drives.</p>
            <p>Durability operations may also cause increased network traffic since it is
                implemented at the client level by sending special probes to each server once the
                actual modification has completed.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="enhanced-durability"><title>Enhanced Durability</title>Couchbase 4.0 offers additional durability
            options which provide clearer semantics in the face of failover.<p>Prior to Couchbase
                4.0, durability was only implemented using the <xref
                    href="concurrent-mutations.dita#concept_iq4_bts_zs">CAS</xref>. Since
                the CAS changed for each mutation, a client could normally determine if the mutation
                was persisted on a given node if the item existed on the node with the same
                CAS.</p><p>The core issue with CAS-based checking is that a different CAS on a
                replica may either be a result of:</p><p>
                <ul id="ul_wf2_ylg_lt">
                    <li>Client contention: The CAS is different from the current mutation because it
                        been changed by a subsequent mutation (one performed <i>after</i> our
                        current client)</li>
                    <li>Slow propagation: The mutation has not yet been propagated to all
                        replicas</li>
                    <li>Failover: The CAS has changed because the master was failed over and control
                        has been transferred to a replica which is using an older copy.</li>
                </ul>
            </p>In Couchbase 4.0, an enhanced mode of durability, based on <i>sequence numbering</i>
            is available. To this effect, an application may opt to enable receiving sequence data
            for each mutation. This provides the SDK with an ever-increasing sequence number for a
            given mutation. The sequence number data contains:<ul id="ul_pyp_tjf_gv">
                <li>A random identifier representing (called a <u>UUID</u>) the current cluster
                    state. This state is changed whenever something happens to the cluster (for
                    example, a failover).</li>
                <li>A counter value which is associated with the current state.</li>
            </ul><p>Applications may enable this extra sequence data to be sent for each mutation
                response. This data is then transparently used by the SDK to use sequence
                number-based durability checking.</p><p>Unlike CAS-based polling, it is simple to
                distinguish various failure cases:<ul id="ul_nzp_tjf_gv">
                    <li>If the <i>UUID</i> is equal, but the sequence number is lower than the
                        expected value, then it means the mutation has not yet been propagated.</li>
                    <li>If the UUID is equal, and the sequence number is greater or equal to the
                        current mutation, it means the current mutation has been propagated.</li>
                    <li>If the UUID is different than the one available at the client, it means the
                        mutation has been lost.</li>
                </ul></p>Enhanced durability can be enabled and used transparently via the SDK.
            Enhanced durability is disabled by default as it adds an overhead of 16 bytes per
                operation.<note>See: Enabling Enhanced Durability for how to enabled enhanced
                durability</note></section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
