<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="sdk_authentication">
    
    <title>
        Authentication
    </title>
    
    <shortdesc>
        RBAC requires that
        users pass appropriate <i>credentials</i> to Couchbase Server in order to access
        cluster-resources. The SDK provides enhanced support for the passing of credentials.
    </shortdesc>
    
    <body>
        
        <section>
            <title>
                RBAC and the SDK
            </title>
            
            <p>
                Couchbase Server 5.0 Enterprise Edition introduces <i>Role-Based Access Control</i>. This
                ensures that cluster-resources can only be accessed by <i>users</i> with appropriate
                privileges. Privileges are grouped in Couchbase-defined sets; and each set is associated with a specific <i>role</i>. 
                Users can each be assigned one or more roles, and are thereby granted the privileges associated with each.
            </p>
            
            <p>
                In order to access cluster-resources, programs, including those supported by the Couchbase SDK, must 
                authenticate with Couchbase Server, and so be identified as existing users, each associated with one or 
                more roles. Authentication requires the passing of <i>credentials</i>; which consist of a <i>username</i> 
                and (in most cases) a <i>password</i>.
                Users may be defined either locally of externally (for example, by means of a centralized LDAP server). 
            </p>
            
            <p>
                Once authentication has succeeded, an <i>authorization</i> process checks the roles associated with the
                identified user. If role-associated privileges correspond to the level of resource-access requested by the user,
                access is duly granted; otherwise, it is denied.
            </p>
            
        </section>

        <section>
            
            <title>
                Passing Credentials
            </title>
            
            <p>
                The Couchbase SDK provides enhanced support for authentication. Exact procedures differ 
                slightly, according to the language 
                used. In some cases, <i>username</i> and <i>password</i> are specified explicitly
                whenever authentication with the cluster occurs. For example, Java authentication is as follows:
            </p>
            
            <codeblock outputclass="language-java">Cluster cluster = CouchbaseCluster.create("localhost");
cluster.authenticate("myusername", "mypassword");</codeblock>
            
            <p>
                In other cases, an <i>authenticator</i>
                object is provided: this allows credentials to be specified during instantiation of
                the authenticator object, and the object subsequently reused as appropriate. For example,
                Python authentication is as follows:
            </p>
            
            <codeblock outputclass="language-python">cluster = Cluster('couchbase://localhost')
authenticator = PasswordAuthenticator('username', 'password')
cluster.authenticate(authenticator)</codeblock>
            
        <p>
            Specific code examples for 
            <xref href="./nodejs/start-using-sdk.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Node.js</xref>,
            <xref href="./java/start-using-sdk.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Java</xref>,
            <xref href="./python/start-using-sdk.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Python</xref>,
            <xref href="./php/start-using-sdk.dita" scope="local" format="dita">PHP</xref>,
            <xref href="./go/start-using-sdk.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Go</xref>,
            <xref href="./c/start-using-sdk.dita" scope="local" format="dita">C</xref>,
            and
            <xref href="./nodejs/start-using-sdk.dita" scope="local" format="dita">.NET</xref>
            are provided in the section 
            <i>Getting Started with the SDK</i>.
        </p>
        
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>
                Further Information on RBAC 
            </title>
            
            <p>
                All aspects of the Couchbase RBAC system are covered in the section
                <xref href="../security/security-authorization.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Authorization</xref>.
                Specifically, for information on:
            </p>

            <ul>
                <li>
                    Adding <i>Users</i> and assigning <i>roles</i>, by means of
                    the Couchbase Web Console, see 
                    <xref href="../security/security-rbac-for-admins-and-apps.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Creating
                    and Managing Users with the UI</xref>.
                    
                    <p>
                        
                    </p>
                </li>
                
                <li>
                    <i>Roles</i> required for resource-access, and the privileges they
                    entail, see
                    <xref href="../security/security-roles.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Roles</xref>.
                    
                    <p>
                        
                    </p>
                </li>
                
                <li>
                    <i>Resources</i> controlled by Couchbase RBAC, see
                    <xref href="../security/security-resources-under-access-control.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Resources
                    Under Access Control</xref>.
                </li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        
    </body>
        
</topic>
