<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="subdoc-operations">
    <title>Sub-Document Operations</title>
    <shortdesc><i>sub-document</i> operations can be used to efficiently access <i>parts</i> of
        documents. Sub-document operations may be quicker and more network-efficient than
            <i>full-document</i> operations such as <i>upsert</i>, <i>update</i> and <i>get</i>
        because they only transmit the accessed sections of the document over the network.
        Sub-document operations are also atomic, allowing safe modifications to documents with
        built-in concurrency control.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <othermeta name="langSelector" content="hidden"/>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <body>
        <section>
            <title>Sub-documents</title>
            <p>Starting with Couchbase Server 4.5 you can atomically and efficiently update and
                retrieve <i>parts</i> of a document. These parts are called <i>sub documents</i>.
                While full-document retrievals retrieve the entire document and full document
                updates require sending the entire document, sub-document retrievals only retrieve
                relevant parts of a document and sub-document updates only require sending the
                updated portions of a document. You should use sub-document operations when you are
                modifying only portions of a document, and full-document operations when the
                contents of a document is to change significantly.</p>
            <p>In order to use sub-document operations you need to specify a <i>path</i> indicating
                the location of the subdocument. The <i>path</i> follows N1QL syntax. Considering
                the
                document<codeblock spectitle="customer123.json" outputclass="language-json">{
  "name": "Douglas Reynholm",
  "email": "douglas@reynholmindustries.com",
  "addresses": {
    "billing": {
      "line1": "123 Any Street",
      "line2": "Anytown",
      "country": "United Kingdom"
    },
    "delivery": {
      "line1": "123 Any Street",
      "line2": "Anytown",
      "country": "United Kingdom"
    }
  },
  "purchases": {
    "complete": [
      339, 976, 442, 666
    ],
    "abandoned": [
      157, 42, 999
    ]
  }
}</codeblock>the
                paths <codeph>name</codeph>, <codeph>addresses.billing.country</codeph> and
                    <codeph>purchases.complete[0]</codeph> are all valid paths.</p>
        </section>
        <section><title>Retrieving</title>The <i>lookup-in</i> operations queries the document for a
            certain path(s) and returns that/those path(s). You have a choice of actually retrieving
            the document path using the <i>subdoc-get</i> subdocument operation, or simply querying
            the existence of the path using the <i>subdoc-exists</i> subdocument operation. The
            latter saves even more bandwidth by not retrieving the contents of the path if it is not
            needed.<codeblock outputclass="language-python" spectitle="Retrieve sub-document value">import couchbase.subdocument as SD  # Use SD alias for brevity
rv = bucket.lookup_in('customer123', SD.get('addresses.delivery.country'))
country = rv[0] # => 'United Kingdom'</codeblock><codeblock spectitle="Check existence of sub-document path" outputclass="language-javascript">bucket.lookupIn('customer123').exists('purchases.pending[-1]').execute(
    function(err, result) {
        console.log('Path exists? %j', result.exists('purchases.pending[-1]'));
    }
);
# Path exists? false</codeblock>Multiple
            operations can be combined as
            well:<codeblock spectitle="Combine multiple lookup operations" outputclass="language-php">$frags = $bucket->lookupIn('customer123')
    ->get('addresses.delivery.country')
    ->exists('purchases.pending[-1]')
    ->execute();

echo $frags->value[0]['value'] . ", Code=" . $frags->value[0]['code'] . "\n";
echo $frags->value[1]['value'] . ", Code=" . $frags->value[1]['code'] . "\n";
# United Kingdom, 0 (No error)
# , 63 (COUCHBASE_SUBDOC_PATH_ENOENT)</codeblock></section>
        <section><title>Mutating</title><p>Mutation operations modify one or more paths in the
                document. The simplest of these operations is <i>subdoc-upsert</i>, which, just like
                the fulldoc-level <i>upsert</i>, this will either modify the value of an existing
                path or create it if it does not
            exist:</p><codeblock spectitle="upserting a new sub-document" outputclass="language-python">bucket.mutate_in('customer123', SD.upsert('fax', '775-867-5309'))</codeblock>Likewise,
            the <i>subdoc-insert</i> operation will only add the new value to the path if it does
            not
            exist<codeblock spectitle="inserting a sub-document" outputclass="language-python">bucket.mutate_in('customer123', SD.insert('purchases.complete', [42, True, None]))
# SubdocPathExistsError</codeblock>Dictionary
            values can also be replaced or removed, and you may combine any number of mutation
            operations within the same general <i>mutate-in</i> API. Here's an example of one which
            replaces one path and removes
            another.<codeblock outputclass="language-python">bucket.mutate_in('customer123',
                 SD.remove('addresses.billing'),
                 SD.replace('email', 'doug96@hotmail.com'))</codeblock></section>
        <section><title>Array append and prepend</title><p>The <i>subdoc-array-prepend</i> and
                    <i>subdoc-array-append</i> operations are true array prepend and append
                operations. Unlike fulldoc <i>append</i>/<i>prepend</i> operations (which simply
                concatenate bytes to the existing value), <i>subdoc-array-append</i> and
                    <i>subdoc-array-prepend</i> are
                JSON-aware:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-python">bucket.mutate_in('customer123', SD.array_append('purchases.complete', 777))
# purchases.complete is now [339, 976, 442, 666, 777]</codeblock><codeblock outputclass="language-python">bucket.mutate_in('customer123', SD.array_prepend('purchases.abandoned', 18))
# purchaes.abandoned in now [18, 157, 49, 999]</codeblock><p>If
                your document only needs to contain an array, you do not have to create a top-level
                object wrapper to contain it. Simply initialize the document with an empty array and
                then use the empty path for subsequent sub-document array
                operations:<codeblock outputclass="language-python" spectitle="Creating and populating an array document">bucket.upsert('my_array', [])
bucket.mutate_in('my_array', SD.array_append('', 'some element'))
# the document my_array is now ["some element"]</codeblock>If
                you wish to add multiple values to an array, you may do so by passing multiple
                values to the <i>array-append</i>, <i>array-prepend</i>, or <i>array-insert</i>
                operations. Be sure to know the difference between passing a collection of multiple
                elements (in which case the collection is inserted as a single element in the array,
                as a sub-array) and passing multiple elements (in which case the elements are
                appended individually to the
                array):<codeblock spectitle="Add multiple elements to an array" outputclass="language-python">bucket.mutate_in('my_array', SD.array_append('', 'elem1', 'elem2', 'elem3')
# the document my_array is now ["some_element", "elem1", "elem2", "elem3"]</codeblock><codeblock spectitle="Add single array as element to existing array" outputclass="language-python">bucket.mutate_in('my_array', SD.array_append('', ['elem1', 'elem2', 'elem3'])
# the document my_array is now ["some_element", ["elem1", "elem2", "elem3"]]</codeblock>Note
                that passing multiple values to a single <i>array-append</i> operation results in
                greater performance increase and bandwidth savings than simply specifying a single
                    <i>array-append</i> for each
                element.<codeblock outputclass="language-python" spectitle="Adding multiple elements to array (slow)">bucket.mutate_in('my_array',
                  SD.array_append('', 'elem1'),
                  SD.array_append('', 'elem2'),
                  SD.array_append('', 'elem3'))</codeblock></p>If
            you wish to create an array if it does not exist and also push elements to it within the
            same operation you may use the<xref href="#subdoc-operations/subdoc-create-parents"
                format="dita"><i>create-parents</i></xref>
            option:<codeblock outputclass="language-python">bucket.mutate_in('some_doc',
                  SD.array_append('some.array', 'Hello', 'World',
                                  create_parents=True))</codeblock></section>
        <section><title>Arrays as unique sets</title><p>Limited support also exists for treating
                arrays like unique sets, using the <i>subdoc-array-addunique</i> command. This will
                do a check to determine if the given value exists or not before actually adding the
                item to the
            array</p><codeblock outputclass="language-python">bucket.mutate_in('customer123', SD.push_unique('purchases.complete', 95))
# => Success
bucket.mutate_in('customer123', SD.push_unique('purchases.abandoned', 42))
# => SubdocPathExists exception!</codeblock>Note
            that currently the <i>addunique</i> will fail with a <i>Path Mismatch</i> error if the
            array contains JSON <i>floats</i>, <i>objects</i>, or <i>arrays</i>. The
                <i>addunique</i> operation will also fail with <i>Cannot Insert</i> if the value to
            be added is one of those types as well.<p>Note that the actual position of the new
                element is undefined, and that the array is not ordered.</p></section>
        <section><title>Array insertion</title>New elements can also be <i>inserted</i> into an
            array. While <i>append</i> will place a new item at the <i>end</i> of an array and
                <i>prepend</i> will place it at the beginning, <i>insert</i> allows an element to be
            inserted at a specific <i>position</i>. The position is indicated by the last path
            component, which should be an array index. For example, to insert
                <codeph>"cruel"</codeph> as the second element in the array <codeph>["Hello",
                "world"]</codeph>, the code would look
            like:<codeblock outputclass="language-python">bucket.mutate_in('array', SD.arrayinsert('[1]', 'cruel'))</codeblock>Note
            that the array must already exist and that the index must be valid (i.e. it must not
            point to an element which is out of bounds).</section>
        <section><title>Counters and numeric fields</title><p>Counter operations allow the
                manipulation of a <i>numeric</i> value inside a document. These operations are
                logically similar to the <i>counter</i> operation on an entire
                document:<codeblock outputclass="language-python">rv = bucket.mutate_in('customer123', SD.counter('logins', 1))
cur_count = rv[0] # => 1</codeblock>The
                    <i>subdoc-counter</i> operation peforms simple arithmetic against a numeric
                value, either incrementing or decrementing the existing
            value.</p><codeblock outputclass="language-python">bucket.upsert('player432', {'gold': 1000})
rv = bucket.mutate_in('player432', SD.counter('gold', -150))
print('player432 now has {0} gold remaining'.format(rv[0]))
# => player 432 now has 850 gold remaining</codeblock>The
            existing value for <i>subdoc-counter</i> operations must be within range of a 64 bit
            signed integer. If the value does not exist, the <i>subdoc-counter</i> operation will
            create it (and its parents, if <i>create-parents</i> is enabled).<p>Note that there are
                several differences between <i>subdoc-counter</i> and the full-document
                    <i>counter</i> operations:<ul id="ul_fp2_2yw_mv">
                    <li>Sub-document counters have a range of -9223372036854775807 to
                        9223372036854775807 (i.e. <codeph>INT64_MIN</codeph> and
                            <codeph>INT64_MAX</codeph>), whereas full-document counters have a range
                        of 0 to 18446744073709551615 (<codeph>UINT64_MAX</codeph>)</li>
                    <li>Sub-document counter operations protect against overflow and underflow,
                        returning an error if the operation would exceed the range. Full-document
                        counters will use normal C semantics for overflow (in which the overflow
                        value is carried over above 0), and will silently fail on underflow, setting
                        the value to 0 instead.</li>
                    <li>Sub-document counter operations can operate on any numeric value within a
                        document, while full-document counter operations require a specially
                        formatted counter document with only the counter value.</li>
                </ul></p></section>
        <section>
            <title>Executing multiple operations</title>
            <p>Multiple subdocument operations can be executed at once on the same document,
                allowing you to retrieve or modify several sub-documents at once. When multiple
                operations are submitted within the context of a single <i>lookup-in</i> or
                    <i>mutate-in</i> command, the server will execute all the operations with the
                same version of the document.<note>Unlike <i>batched operations</i> which is simply
                    a way of sending multiple individual operations efficiently on the network,
                    multiple subdoc operations are formed into a single command packet, which is
                    then executed atomically on the server. You can submit up to 16 operations at a
                    time.</note>When submitting multiple <i>mutation</i> operations within a single
                    <i>mutate-in</i> command, those operations are considered to be part of a single
                transaction: if any of the mutation operations fail, the server will logically
                roll-back any other mutation operations performed within the <i>mutate-in</i>, even
                if those commands would have been successful had another command not failed.</p>
            <p>When submitting multiple <i>retrieval</i> operations within a single <i>lookup-in</i>
                command, the status of each command does not affect any other command. This means
                that it is possible for some retrieval operations to succeed and some others to
                fail. While their statuses are independent of each other, you should note that
                operations submitted within a single <i>lookup-in</i> are all executed against the
                same <i>version</i> of the document.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="subdoc-create-parents">
            <title>Creating parents</title>
            <p>Sub-document mutation operations such as <i>subdoc-upsert</i> or <i>subdoc-insert</i>
                will fail if the <i>immediate parent</i> is not present in the document.
                Consider:<codeblock outputclass="language-json">{
    "level_0": {
        "level_1": {
            "level_2": {
                "level_3": {
                    "some_field": "some_value"
                }
            }
        }
    }
}</codeblock>Looking
                at the <codeph>some_field</codeph> field (which is really
                    <codeph>level_0.level_1.level_2.level_3.some_field</codeph>), its
                    <i>immediate</i> parent is <codeph>level_3</codeph>. If we were to attempt to
                insert another field,
                <codeph>level_0.level_1.level_2.level_3.another_field</codeph>, it would succeed
                because the immediate parent is present. However if we were to attempt to
                    <i>subdoc-insert</i> to <codeph>level_1.level_2.foo.bar</codeph> it would fail,
                because <codeph>level_1.level_2.foo</codeph> (which would be the immediate parent)
                does not exist. Attempting to perform such an operation would result in a Path Not
                Found error.</p>
            <p>By default the automatic creation of parents is disabled, as a simple typo in
                application code can result in a rather confusing document structure. Sometimes it
                is necessary to have the server create the hierarchy however. In this case, the
                    <i>create-parents</i> or <i>create-intermediates</i> option may be
                used.<codeblock outputclass="language-python">bucket.mutate_in('customer123',
                 SD.upsert('level_0.level_1.foo.bar.phone',
                           {'num': '775-867-5309', 'ext': 16},
                           create_parents=True))</codeblock></p>
        </section>
        <section><title>CAS Semantics</title><p>Subdoc mostly eliminates the need for tracking the
                    <xref href="concurrent-mutations-cluster.dita#concept_iq4_bts_zs">CAS</xref>
                value. Subdoc operations are atomic and therefore if two different threads access
                two different sub-documents then no conflict will arise. For example the following
                two blocks can execute concurrently without any risk of
                conflict<codeblock outputclass="language-python">bucket.mutate_in('customer123', SD.array_append('purchases.complete', 999))</codeblock>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-python">bucket.mutate_in('customer123', SD.array_append('purchases.abandoned', 998))</codeblock></p>Even
            when modifying the <i>same</i> part of the document, operations will not necessarily
            conflict, for example two concurrent <i>subdoc-array-append</i> to the same array will
            both succeed, never overwriting the other.<p>While CAS is no longer required to ensure
                document updates are preserver, it may still be needed to ensure document state
                remains consistent over multiple invocations of <i>mutate-in</i>: Sometimes it's
                important to ensure the entire document didn't change state since the last
                operation, such as in the case <i>subdoc-remove</i> operations to ensure that the
                element being removed was not already replaced by something else.</p></section>
        <section>
            <title>Error handling</title>
            <p>Subdoc operations have their own set of errors. When programming with subdoc, be
                prepared any of the full-document errors (such as <i>Document Not Found</i>) as well
                as special sub-document errors which are received when certain constraints are not
                satisfied. Some of the errors include:<ul id="ul_yg1_slw_mv">
                    <li><b>Path does not exist</b>: When retrieving a path, this means the path does
                        not exist in the document. When inserting or upserting a path, this means
                        the <i>immediate parent</i> does not exist.</li>
                    <li><b>Path already exists</b>: In the context of a <i>insert</i>, it means the
                        given path already exists. In the context of <i>array-add-unique</i>, it
                        means the given value already exists.</li>
                    <li><b>Path mismatch</b>: This means the path may exist in the document, but
                        that there is a type conflict between the path in the document and the path
                        in the command. Consider the
                        document,<codeblock outputclass="language-json">{ "tags": ["reno", "nevada", "west", "sierra"] }</codeblock>The
                        path <codeph>tags.sierra</codeph> is a mismatch, since <codeph>tags</codeph>
                        is actually an array, while the path assumes it is a JSON object
                        (dictionary).</li>
                    <li><b>Document not JSON</b>: This means you are attempting to modify a binary
                        document using sub-document operations.</li>
                    <li><b>Invalid path</b>: This means the path is invalid for the command. Certain
                        commands such as <i>subdoc-array-insert</i> expect array elements as their
                        final component, while others such as <i>subdoc-upsert</i> and
                            <i>subdoc-insert</i> expect dictionary (object) keys.</li>
                </ul>Because subdocument operations are executed using either <i>mutate-in</i> or
                    <i>replace-in</i>, if a command fails a top-level error is reported (<i>Multi
                    Command Failure</i>), rather than an individual error code (e.g. <i>Path Not
                    Found</i>). When receiving a top-level error code, you should traverse the
                results of the command to see which individual code failed.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Path syntax</title>
            <p>Path syntax largely follows N1QL conventions: A path is divided into components, with
                each component referencing a specific <i>level</i> in a document hierarchy.
                Components are separated by dots (<codeph>.</codeph>) in the case where the element
                left of the dot is a dictionary, or by brackets (<codeph>[n]</codeph>) where the
                element left of the bracket is an array and <codeph>n</codeph> is the index within
                the array.</p>
            <p>As a special extension, you can indicate the <i>last element</i> of an array by using
                an index of <codeph>-1</codeph>, for example to get the last element of the array in
                the document<codeblock outputclass="language-json">{"some":{"array":[1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,0]}}</codeblock>Use
                    <codeph>some.array[-1]</codeph> as the path, which will return the element
                    <codeph>0</codeph>.</p>
            <p>Each path component must conform as a JSON string, as if it were surrounded by
                quotes, and any character in the path which may invalidate it as a JSON string must
                be escaped by a backslash (<codeph>\</codeph>). In other words, the path component
                must match exactly the path inside the document itself. For
                example:<codeblock outputclass="language-json">{"literal\"quote": {"array": []}}</codeblock>must be referenced
                as <codeph>literal\"quote.array</codeph>.</p>
            <p>If the path also has special path characters (i.e. a dot or brackets) it may be
                escaped using N1QL escapes. Considering the
                document<codeblock outputclass="language-json">{"literal[]bracket": {"literal.dot": true}}</codeblock>A path
                such as <codeph>`literal[]bracket`.`literal.dot`</codeph>. You can use
                double-backticks (<codeph>``</codeph>) to reference a literal backtick.</p>
            <p>If you need to combine both JSON <i>and</i> path-syntax literals you can do so by
                escaping the component from any JSON string characters (e.g. a quote or backslash)
                and then encapsulating it in backticks (<codeph>`path`</codeph>). Here is such an
                example in Python:</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-python">import json
def escape_component(component):
    component = json.dumps(component)[1:-1]
    return '`' + component + '`'

print escape_component("Hello!") # `Hello!`
print escape_component("backtick[]") # `backtick[]`
print escape_component("[\"mixed\\") # `[\"mixed\\`</codeblock>
            <note>Currently, paths cannot exceed 1024 characters, and cannot be more than 32 levels
                deep.</note>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>

