<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_q2x_tl4_1v">
    
  <title>
      Understanding Queries
  </title>
    
    <shortdesc>
        Full Text Search allows queries to be performed on Full Text Indexes. Queries can be performed
        by means of the Couchbase Web Console, the Couchbase REST API, or the Couchbase SDK. 
    </shortdesc>
    
    
  <body>
      
    <section id="query-specification-options">
          
        <title>
          Query-Specification Options
        </title>
      
         <p>
             Full Text Search allows a range of query options. These include:
         </p>
         
         <ul>
             
             <li>
                 Input-text and target-text can be <i>analyzed</i>: this transforms input text into token-streams, according to
                 different specified criteria, so allowing richer and more finely controlled forms of text-matching.
                 
                 <p>
                     
                 </p>
             </li>
             
             <li>
                 The <i>fuzziness</i> of a query can be specified, so that the scope of matches can be constrained to
                 a particular level of exactitude. A high degree of fuzziness means that a large number of partial
                 matches will be returned.
                 
                 <p>
                     
                 </p>
             </li>
             
             <li>
                 Multiple queries can be specified for simultaneous processing, with one given a higher <i>boost</i> than
                 another; so ensuring that its results are returned at the top of the set.
                 
                 <p>
                     
                 </p>
                 
             </li>
             
             <li>
                 Regular expressions and wildcards can be used in text-specification for search-input.
                 
                 <p>
                     
                 </p>
             </li>
             
             <li>
                <i>Compound Queries</i> can be designed, such that an appropriate conjunction or disjunction of the total 
                 result-set can be returned.
                 
                 <p>
                     
                 </p>
             </li>
             
         </ul>
         
         <p>
             All the above options, and others, are explained in detail on the page
             <xref href="./fts-query-types.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Query Types</xref>.
         </p>
         
         <p>
             For information on how to execute queries, see
             <xref href="./fts-performing-searches.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Performing Searches</xref>.
         </p>
      
    </section>
      
    <section id="sorting-results">
         
        <title>
            Sorting Results
        </title>
         
        <p>
          The results returned from a Full Text Search can be <i>sorted</i>: by <b>id</b>, <b>score</b>, <b>field</b>, and more.
          Details are provided in
          <xref href="./fts-sorting.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Sorting Query Results</xref>.
        </p>
         
        </section>
        
        <section id="query-response-objects">
        
        <title>
          Query Response Objects
        </title>
        
        <p>
          Every Full Text Search Query provides a <i>response object</i>. This
          contains the result of a Full Text Query; and consists of individual child-objects that provide <i>status</i>, 
          a <i>request-copy</i>, the number
          of <i>hits</i> (or matches) achieved, and (optionally) <i>facets</i>, which provide aggregation information.
        </p>
        
        <p>
          For full information, see
          <xref href="./fts-response-object-schema.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Handling Response Objects</xref>.
        </p>    
          
        </section>
          
      </body>
</topic>
