<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="geospatial_queries">
  
  <title>
    Geospatial Queries
  </title>
  
    <shortdesc>
      Geospatial queries return documents based on specified locations.
    </shortdesc>
  
  <body>
    
    <section id="introduction-to-geospatial-queries">
      
      <title>
        Introduction to Geospatial Queries
      </title>
      
        <p>
         A <i>geospatial query</i> specifies location-data, and returns each document that contains
         an approximate match. Location-data is represented, by both queries and documents, as 
         <i>longitude</i>-<i>latitude</i> coordinate pairs. 
        </p>
      
        <p>
          This allows an application, based on the user's input of a particular coordinate, address, or
          property name, to derive a list of <i>points of interest</i> that lie within a specified distance
          of the implied starting-point; and display these for the user's benefit.
        </p>
      
        <p>
          A geospatial query specifies location-data by means of either:
        </p>
      
      <ul>
        <li>
          A single <i>longitude</i>-<i>latitude</i> coordinate pair; and a <i>distance</i> value, in miles, which 
          determines a radius measured from the location specified by the coordinate pair. Documents are returned if they
          specify (by means of a longitude-latitude coordinate pair) a location that lies within the radius.
          
          <p>
            
          </p>
        </li>
        
        <li>
          Two longitude-latitude coordinate pairs. These are respectively taken to indicate the upper left and
          lower right corners of a bounding box. Documents are returned if they specify a location that lies within the
          bounding box.
          
          <p>
            
          </p>
        </li>
      </ul>
      
      <p>
        A geospatial query must be applied to an index that applies the <i>geopoint</i> type, as a <i>type mapping</i>, 
        to the document-field that
        contains the target longitude-latitude coordinate pair.
      </p>
    
    </section>
    
    <section id="recognizing_target_data">
      
      <title>
        Recognizing Target Data
      </title>
      
    </section>
    
    
    <section id="creating_a_geospatial_index">
      
      <title>
        Creating a Geospatial Index
      </title>
      
    </section>
    
    
    <section id="creating_geospatial_rest_queries">
      
      <title>
        Creating Geospatial REST Queries
      </title>
      
    </section>
    
  </body>
  
</topic>
