<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_jfq_fn4_1v">
  
  <title>
    Query Types
  </title>
  
    <shortdesc>
      Couchbase Full Text Search supports multiple types of query.
    </shortdesc>
  
  <body>
    
    <section id="introduction-to-query-types">
      
      <title>
        Introduction to Query Types
      </title>
      
    <p>
      Full Text Search allows text-data to be <i>queried</i>. Multiple options are provided for
      ensuring the right kinds of match. This page describes the
      purpose of each query-type, and provides sample JSON objects that indicate how queries 
      can be constructed. 
    </p>
      
    <p>
      Available query-types include:
    </p>
      
      <ul>
        
        <li>
          <i>Simple Queries</i>: Accept input-text in the form of words and phrases, and attempt to find
          matches across bodies of text that have been <i>indexed</i>. <i>Analyzers</i> are applied
          to both input and target, potentially to strip out unnecessary characters, reduce words to
          the basic stems on which matching should occur, handle punctuation, and more. Additionally,
          match accuracy-levels can be specified; and
          multiple queries can be expressed together, with their respective priorities <i>boosted</i>,
          (to ensure their results' prominence in the eventual result-set).
          
          <p>
            
          </p>
        </li>
        
        <li>
          <i>Compound Queries</i>: Accept multiple queries simultaneously, and return either the
          <i>conjunction</i> of results from the result-sets, or a <i>disjunction</i>.
          
          <p>
            
          </p>
        </li>
        
        
        <li>
          <i>Range Queries</i>: Accept ranges for dates and numbers, and return documents that contain
          values within those ranges.
          
          <p>
            
          </p>
        </li>
        
        <li>
          <i>Query String Queries</i>: Accept <i>query strings</i>, which express query-requirements 
          in a special syntax.
          
          <p>
            
          </p>
        </li>
        
        <li>
          <i>Non-Analytic Queries</i>: Accept words and phrases on which exact matches only are returned. No
          analysis is performed.
          
          <p>
            
          </p>
        </li>
        
        <li>
          <i>Special Queries</i>: For testing purposes, return either all of the documents in an index,
          or none.
          
          <p>
            
          </p>
        </li>
        
        
      </ul>
      
    <p>
      These query-types are explained in greater detail below. Examples are provided, using
      the Couchbase REST API query-syntax. (Note that Full Text Search can also
      be performed with the Couchbase Web Console and the Couchbase SDK.) The JSON data refers to
      the  <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> 
      bucket, and assumes the existence of a Full Text Index named <codeph>hotel</codeph>.
    </p> 
      
      <p>
        To run the examples using <codeph>curl</codeph>, use the following syntax:
      </p>
      
      <codeblock>curl -u Administrator:password -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{<varname>your query in JSON here...</varname>}' \
  http://localhost:8094/api/index/<varname>index_name</varname>/query</codeblock>
      
      
    <p>
      Note that the examples below show only the JSON fragments that constitute non-generic parts of the queries they
      describe. For actual use in a Full Text Search, these JSON fragments should be wrapped in the following generic
      configuration:
    </p>
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-json">{
  "explain": false,
  "fields": [
    "*"
  ],
  "highlight": {},
  "query":{ <varname>your_query_details_here</varname> }
}</codeblock>
      
      <p>
        For more information on using the REST API to perform queries,
        see
        <xref href="./fts-searching-with-the-rest-api.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Searching with the REST API</xref>.
      </p>
      
      
    </section>
    
    <section id="simple-queries">
      
      <title>
        Simple Queries
      </title>
      
     <dl>
       
       <dlentry id="match-query">
         
         <dt>
           <b>Match Query</b>
         </dt>
         
         <dd>
           A match query <i>analyzes</i> input text, and uses the results to query an index.
           Options include specifying an analyzer, performing a <i>fuzzy match</i>, and performing
           a <i>prefix match</i>.  By default, the analyzer used for the input-text is that previously used on
           the target-text, during index-creation. For information on analyzers, see
           <xref href="./fts-using-analyzers.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Understanding Analyzers</xref>.
           
           <p>
             When fuzzy matching is used, if the single parameter
             is set to a non-zero integer, the analyzed text is matched with a corresponding
             level of fuzziness. 
           </p>
             
            <p>
             When a prefix match is used, the <parmname>prefix_length</parmname> parameter specifies
             that for a match to occur, a prefix of specified length must be shared by the
             input-term and the target text-element.
           </p>
           
           <p>
             The following JSON object demonstrates specification of a match query:
           </p>
           
           <codeblock outputclass="language-json">{
 "match": "location hostel",
 "field": "reviews.content",
 "analyzer": "standard",
 "fuzziness": 3,
 "prefix_length": 4
}</codeblock>
           
           <p>
             A match query is also demonstrated by means of the Java SDK, in
             <xref href="../sdk/java/full-text-searching-with-sdk.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Searching with the SDK</xref>.
           </p>
         
         </dd>
         
       </dlentry>
       
       <dlentry id="match-phrase-query">
         
         <dt>
           <b>Match Phrase Query</b>
         </dt>
         
         <dd>
           The input text is analyzed, and a phrase query is built with the terms resulting from
           the analysis. This type of query searches for terms in the target that occur <i>in the positions
           and offsets indicated by the input</i>: this depends on <i>term vectors</i>, which must have been included in the
           creation of the index used for the search.
           
           <p>
             For example, a match phrase query for <codeph>location for functions</codeph> is matched
             with <codeph>locate the function</codeph>, if the standard analyzer is used: this analyzer uses a
             <i>stemmer</i>, which tokenizes <codeph>location</codeph> and <codeph>locate</codeph> to <codeph>locat</codeph>, and 
             reduces <codeph>functions</codeph>
               and <codeph>function</codeph> to <codeph>function</codeph>. Additionally, the analyzer employs
             <i>stop</i> removal, which removes small and less significant words from input and target text, so that
             matches are attempted on only the more significant elements of vocabulary: in this case  <codeph>for</codeph> and 
             <codeph>the</codeph> are removed. Following this processing, the tokens <codeph>locat</codeph> and
             <codeph>function</codeph> are recognized as <i>common to both input and target</i>; and also as being both 
             <i>in the same sequence
               as</i>,
             and <i>at the same distance from</i> one another; and therefore a match is made. 
            </p>
           
           <codeblock outputclass="language-json">{
 "match_phrase": "very nice",
 "field": "reviews.content"
}</codeblock>
           
           <p>
             A match phrase query is also demonstrated by means of the Java SDK, in
             <xref href="../sdk/java/full-text-searching-with-sdk.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Searching with the SDK</xref>.
           </p>
         
         </dd>
         
       </dlentry>
       
       <dlentry>
         
         <dt>
           <b>Fuzzy Query</b>
         </dt>
         
         <dd>
           A <i>fuzzy query</i> matches terms within a specified <i>edit</i> (or <i>Levenshtein</i>) distance: meaning
           that terms are considered to match when they are to a specified degree <i>similar</i>, rather than <i>exact</i>.
           A common prefix of a stated length may be also specified as a requirement for matching. 
           
           <p>
             Fuzziness is specified by means of a single integer. For example:
           </p>
           
           <codeblock outputclass="language-json">{
 "term": "interest",
 "field": "reviews.content",
 "fuzziness": 2  
}</codeblock>
           
           <p>
             <i>Fuzziness</i>s is  demonstrated by means of the Java SDK, in the context of the <i>term query</i>
             (see below), in
             <xref href="../sdk/java/full-text-searching-with-sdk.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Searching with the SDK</xref>. Note
             that two such queries are specified, with the difference in fuzziness between them resulting in different forms of
             match, and different sizes of result-sets.
           </p>
         
         
         </dd>
         
       </dlentry>
       
       <dlentry>
         
         <dt>
           <b>Prefix Query</b>
         </dt>
         
         <dd>
           A <i>prefix</i> query finds documents containing terms that start with the specified prefix.
           
            <codeblock outputclass="language-json">{ 
 "prefix": "inter",
 "field": "reviews.content" 
}</codeblock>
           
         </dd>
         
       </dlentry>
       
       <dlentry>
         
         <dt>
           <b>Regexp Query</b>
         </dt>
         
         <dd>
           A <i>regexp</i> query finds documents containing terms that match the specified regular expression. 
           
           <codeblock outputclass="language-json">{
 "regexp": "inter.+",
 "field": "reviews.content"
}</codeblock>
           
           <p>
             A regexp query is also demonstrated by means of the Java SDK, in
             <xref href="../sdk/java/full-text-searching-with-sdk.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Searching with the SDK</xref>.
           </p>
         
         </dd>
         
       </dlentry>
       
       <dlentry>
         
         <dt>
           <b>Wildcard Query</b>
         </dt>
         
         <dd>
           A <i>wildcard</i> query uses a wildcard expression, to search within individual terms for
           matches. Wildcard expressions can be any single character (<codeph>?</codeph>) or zero to many characters
           (<codeph>*</codeph>). Wildcard expressions can appear in the middle or end of a term, but not at the
            beginning.
            
            <codeblock outputclass="language-json">{ 
 "wildcard": "inter*",
 "field": "reviews.content" 
}</codeblock>
           
           <p>
             A wildcard query is also demonstrated by means of the Java SDK, in
             <xref href="../sdk/java/full-text-searching-with-sdk.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Searching with the SDK</xref>.
           </p>
         
         </dd>
         
       </dlentry>
       
       <dlentry>
         
         <dt>
           <b>Boolean Field Query</b>
         </dt>
         
         <dd>
           A <i>boolean field</i> query searches fields that contain boolean <codeph>true</codeph> or 
           <codeph>false</codeph> values. A
            boolean field query searches the actual content of the field, and should not be confused
            with the 
           <xref href="#topic_jfq_fn4_1v/boolean-query" format="dita">boolean queries</xref> 
           (described below, in the section on compound queries) that modify whether a
            query must, should, or must not be present.
            
            <codeblock outputclass="language-json">{
 "bool": true,
 "field": "free_breakfast"
}</codeblock>
         
         </dd>
         
       </dlentry>
       
     </dl>
    </section>
    
    <section id="compound-queries">
      
      <title>
        Compound Queries
      </title>
      
      <dl>
        
        <dlentry>
          
          <dt>
            <b>Conjunction Query (AND)</b>
          </dt>
          
          <dd>
            A <i>conjunction</i> query contains multiple <i>child queries</i>. Its result documents must satisfy all of
            the child queries.
            
            <codeblock outputclass="language-json">{
 "conjuncts":[
   {"field":"reviews.content", "match": "location"},
   {"field":"free_breakfast", "bool": true}
 ]
}</codeblock>
            
            <p>
              A conjunction query is also demonstrated by means of the Java SDK, in
              <xref href="../sdk/java/full-text-searching-with-sdk.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Searching with the SDK</xref>.
            </p>
          
          </dd>
          
        </dlentry>
        
        <dlentry>
          
          <dt>
            <b>Disjunction Query (OR)</b>
          </dt>
          
          <dd>
            A <i>disjunction</i> query contains multiple <i>child queries</i>. Its result documents must satisfy a
            configurable <codeph>min</codeph> number of child queries. By default this
              <codeph>min</codeph> is set to 1. For example, if three child queries &#8212; A, B, and C &#8212; are
            specified, a <codeph>min</codeph> of 1 specifies that the result documents should be those returned
            uniquely for A (with all returned uniquely for B and C, and all returned commonly for A, B, and C, omitted).
            
            <codeblock outputclass="language-json">{
 "disjuncts":[
   {"field":"reviews.content", "match": "location"},
   {"field":"free_breakfast", "bool": true}
 ]
}</codeblock>
            
            <p>
              A disjunction query is also demonstrated by means of the Java SDK, in
              <xref href="../sdk/java/full-text-searching-with-sdk.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Searching with the SDK</xref>.
            </p>
          
          </dd>
          
        </dlentry>
        
        <dlentry>
          <dt id="boolean-query">
            <b>Boolean Query</b>
          </dt>
          
          <dd>
            A <i>boolean query</i> is a combination of conjunction and disjunction queries. A
            boolean query takes three lists of queries: 
            
            <ul>
              
              <li>
                <codeph>must</codeph>: Result documents must satisfy all of these queries.
              </li>
              
              <li>
                <codeph>should</codeph>: Result documents should satisfy these queries.
              </li>
              
              <li>
                <codeph>must not</codeph>: Result documents must not satisfy any of these queries.
              </li>
            </ul>
            
            <codeblock outputclass="language-json">{
 "must": { 
   "conjuncts":[{"field":"reviews.content", "match": "location"}]},
 "must_not": { 
   "disjuncts": [{"field":"free_breakfast", "bool": false}]},
 "should": { 
   "disjuncts": [{"field":"free_breakfast", "bool": true}]}
}</codeblock>
          </dd>
          
        </dlentry>
        
      <dlentry>
        
        <dt>
          <b>Doc ID Query</b>
        </dt>
        
        <dd>
          A <i>doc ID</i> query returns the indexed document or documents among the specified set. This
            is typically used in conjunction queries, to restrict the scope of other queries’ output.
            
            <codeblock outputclass="language-json">{ "ids": [ "hotel_10158", "hotel_10159" ] }
            </codeblock>
          
          <p>
            A doc ID Query is demonstrated by means of the Java SDK, in
            <xref href="../sdk/java/full-text-searching-with-sdk.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Searching with the SDK</xref>.
          </p>
          
        </dd>
        
      </dlentry>
        
      </dl>
      
    </section>
    
    <section id="range-queries">
      
      <title>
        Range Queries
      </title>
      
      <dl>
        
        <dlentry>
          
          <dt>
            <b>Date Range Query</b>
          </dt>
          
          <dd>
            A <i>date range</i> query finds documents containing a date value, in the specified field
            within the specified range. Dates should be in the format
            specified by <xref href="https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3339.txt" format="html" scope="external">RFC-3339</xref>, 
            which is a specific profile of ISO-8601. Define the endpoints using the fields <parmname>start</parmname> and
              <parmname>end</parmname>. One endpoint can be omitted, but not both. The
              <parmname>inclusiveStart</parmname> and <parmname>inclusiveEnd</parmname> properties
            in the query JSON control whether or not the endpoints are included or excluded.
            
            <codeblock outputclass="language-json">{ 
 "start": "2001-10-09T10:20:30-08:00",
 "end": "2016-10-31",
 "inclusive_start": false,
 "inclusive_end": false,
 "field": "review_date" 
}</codeblock>
          </dd>
          
        </dlentry>
        
        <dlentry>
          
          <dt>
            <b>Numeric Range Query</b>
          </dt>
          
          <dd>
            A <i>numeric range</i> query finds documents containing a numeric value in the specified
            field within the specified range. Define the endpoints using the fields
              <parmname>min</parmname> and <parmname>max</parmname>. You can omit one endpoint, but
            not both. The <parmname>inclusiveMin</parmname> and <parmname>inclusiveMax</parmname>
            properties control whether or not the endpoints are included or excluded. By default,
              <parmname>min</parmname> is inclusive and <parmname>max</parmname> is exclusive.
            
            <codeblock outputclass="language-json">{ 
 "min": 100, "max": 1000,
 "inclusive_min": false,
 "inclusive_max": false,
 "field": "id" 
}</codeblock>
            
            <p>
              A numeric range Query is also demonstrated by means of the Java SDK, in
              <xref href="../sdk/java/full-text-searching-with-sdk.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Searching with the SDK</xref>.
            </p>
          
          </dd>
        
        </dlentry> 
      
      </dl>
      
    </section>
    
    <section id="query-string-query-syntax">
      
      <title>
        Query String Query
      </title>
      
      <p>
        A <i>query string</i> can be used, to express a given query by means of a special syntax. 
      </p> 
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-json">{ "query": "+nice +view" }</codeblock>
        
      <p>
        A query string Query is demonstrated by means of the Java SDK, in
        <xref href="../sdk/java/full-text-searching-with-sdk.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Searching with the SDK</xref>.
        Note also that the Full Text Searches conducted with the Couchbase Web Console themselves
        use query strings. (See
        <xref href="./fts-searching-from-the-ui.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Searching from the UI</xref>.)
      </p>
      
      <p>
        Certain queries supported by FTS are not yet supported by the query string syntax. 
        This includes wildcards, regexp, and date range queries.
      </p>
      
      <p>
        Using the query string syntax, the following query types can be performed:
      </p>

      <dl>
        
        <dlentry>
          
          <dt>
            <b>Match</b>
          </dt>
          
          <dd>
            A term without any other syntax is interpreted as a match query for the term in the default
            field. The default field is <codeph>_all</codeph>.
            
            <p>
             For example, <codeph>water</codeph> performs a 
             <xref href="#topic_jfq_fn4_1v/match-query" format="dita">Match Query</xref> 
             for the term <codeph>water</codeph>.
            </p>
          
          </dd>
          
        </dlentry>
        
        <dlentry>
          
          <dt>
            <b>Match Phrases</b>
          </dt>
          
          <dd>
            Placing the search terms in quotes performs a match phrase query. For example: 
            <userinput>light beer</userinput> performs a 
            <xref href="#topic_jfq_fn4_1v/match-phrase-query" format="dita">match phrase query</xref> 
            for the phrase <codeph>light beer</codeph>.
          </dd>
          
        </dlentry>
        
        <dlentry>
          
          <dt>
            <b>Field Scoping</b>
          </dt>
          
          <dd>
            The specified field in which to search can be specified by prefixing the term with a field-name, separated by a colon.
            For example, <userinput>description:water</userinput> 
            performs a <xref href="#topic_jfq_fn4_1v/match-query" format="dita">match query</xref> for the 
            term <codeph>water</codeph>, in the <codeph>description</codeph> field.
          </dd>
          
        </dlentry>
        
        <dlentry>
          
          <dt>
            <b>Required, Optional, and Exclusion</b>
          </dt>
          
          <dd>
            
            When a query string includes multiple items, by default these are placed into the SHOULD
            clause of a 
            <xref href="http://www.blevesearch.com/docs/Query/#boolean:8f767fbc41af8ff1ddcf4c60ed8c0fe9"
                    format="html" scope="external">boolean query</xref>. This can be adjusted, by prefixing items 
            with either <codeph>+</codeph> or <codeph>-</codeph>.
            Prefixing with <codeph>+</codeph> places that item in the MUST portion of the boolean query.  Prefixing 
            with <codeph>-</codeph> places that item in the MUST NOT portion of the boolean query.
            
            <p>
              For example, <codeph>+description:water -light beer</codeph> performs a boolean query that MUST satisfy the 
              match query for the term <codeph>water</codeph> in the <codeph>description</codeph> field, MUST NOT satisfy 
              the match query 
              for the term <codeph>light</codeph> in the <codeph>default</codeph> field, and SHOULD satisfy the match query 
              for the term <codeph>beer</codeph> in the <codeph>default</codeph> field. Result documents satisfying the 
              SHOULD clause score higher than those that do not.
             </p>
            
          </dd>
          
        </dlentry>
        
        <dlentry>
          
          <dt>
            <b>Boosting</b>
          </dt>
          
          <dd>
            
            When multiple query-clauses are specified, the relative importance a given clause can be specified
            by suffixing it with the <codeph>^</codeph> operator, 
            followed by a number. For example, <codeph>description:water name:water^5</codeph> performs Match Queries
            for <codeph>water</codeph> in both the <codeph>name</codeph> and <codeph>description</codeph> fields, 
            but documents having the term in the <codeph>name</codeph> field score higher.
            
          </dd>
          
        </dlentry>
        
        <dlentry>
          
          <dt>
            <b>Numeric Ranges</b>
          </dt>
          
          <dd>
            
            Numeric ranges can be specified with the &gt;, &gt;=, &lt;, and &lt;= operators, each followed by a 
            numeric value. For example, <codeph>abv:&gt;10</codeph> performs a numeric range query on 
            the <codeph>abv</codeph> field, for values greater than 10.
            
            <p>
              A numeric range query is demonstrated by means of the Java SDK, in
              <xref href="../sdk/java/full-text-searching-with-sdk.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Searching with the SDK</xref>.
            </p>
          
          </dd>
          
        </dlentry>
          
      </dl>
      
    </section>
    
    <section id="non-analytic-queries">
      
      <title>
        Non-Analytic Queries
      </title>
      
      <p>
        <i>Term</i> and <i>Phrase</i> queries support no analysis on
        their inputs. This means that only exact matches are returned.
      </p>
      
      <p>
        In most cases, given the benefits of using analyzers, use of match and match phrase queries 
        is preferable to that of term and phrase. For information on analyzers, see
        <xref href="./fts-using-analyzers.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Understanding Analyzers</xref>.
      </p>
      
      
      <dl>
        
        <dlentry>
          
          <dt>
            <b>Term Query</b>
          </dt>
          
          <dd>
            A <i>term</i> query is the simplest possible query. It performs an exact
            match in the index for the provided term. 
            
            <codeblock outputclass="language-json">{
              "term": "locate",
              "field": "reviews.content"
              }</codeblock>
            
            <p>
              Term queries are also demonstrated by means of the Java SDK, in
              <xref href="../sdk/java/full-text-searching-with-sdk.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Searching with the SDK</xref>.
            </p>
            
          </dd>
          
        </dlentry>
        
        <dlentry>
          
          <dt>
            <b>Phrase Query</b>
          </dt>
          
          <dd>
            A <i>phrase query</i> searches for terms occurring in the specified position and offsets.
            It performs an exact term-match for all the phrase-constituents,
            without using an analyzer. 
            
            <codeblock outputclass="language-json">{
              "terms": ["nice", "view"],
              "field": "reviews.content"
              }</codeblock>
            
            <p>
              A phrase query is also demonstrated by means of the Java SDK, in
              <xref href="../sdk/java/full-text-searching-with-sdk.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Searching with the SDK</xref>.
            </p>
            
          </dd>
          
        </dlentry>
        
      </dl>
      
    </section>
    
    <section id="special-queries">
      
      <title>
        Special Queries
      </title>
      
      <p>
        <i>Special</i> queries are usually employed either in combination with other queries, or to test the system.
      </p>
      
      <dl>
        
        <dlentry>
          
          <dt>
            <b>Match All Query</b>
          </dt>
          
          <dd>
            Matches <i>all</i> documents in an index,
            irrespective of terms. For example, if an index
            is created on the <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> bucket for documents of type <codeph>zucchini</codeph>, the
            <i>match all</i> query returns all document IDs from the <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> bucket, even though
            the bucket
            contains no documents of type <codeph>zucchini</codeph>. 
            
            <codeblock outputclass="language-json">{ "match_all": {} }</codeblock></dd>
          
        </dlentry>
        
        <dlentry>
          
          <dt>
            <b>Match None Query</b>
          </dt>
          
          <dd>
            Matches no documents in the index. 
            
            <codeblock outputclass="language-json">{ "match_none": {} }</codeblock>
            
          </dd>
          
        </dlentry>
        
      </dl>
      
    </section>
    
  </body>
  
</topic>
