<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_hfg_hh4_1v">
  <title>Custom Mapping</title>
  <body><p>There are many additional controls that can be used to build indexes on your documents just the
      way you want them. These can be found under <uicontrol>Indexes</uicontrol> > <uicontrol>Full
        Text</uicontrol> > <b>New</b> or <uicontrol>Edit Full Text Index</uicontrol> buttons.</p>
    <p>Document mapping works as follows: <ol>
      <li>Specify the type of the document you want to include in your index. You can include more than one type of document in a single index but you can only index documents in a single bucket. </li>
      <li> For each type of document, you specify how to index its fields and embedded structures. </li>
      <li>The term <parmname>field</parmname> refers to a name value pair in JSON where the value is simple (i.e. not an object).  </li>
      <li>Use a <b>child mapping</b> to index embedded objects, i.e. name-value pairs where the
          value is of type object. You can add field mappings as in step 3 to describe how the
          name-value pairs in the embedded object should be indexed.</li>
      <li>To index arrays, use fields for arrays of simple values and use a child mapping for arrays
          of objects. In other words, you design your mapping so that you essentially ignore the
          array and FTS "just works" even though there are multiple values. For example, to index
          the following document containing an array, add a field of type <parmname>text</parmname>
          for <parmname>pachyderms</parmname>. Queries work just like any other field. If included
          in <codeph>_all</codeph>, a query for <parmname>rhinoceros</parmname> matches this
          document, or you can scope to the field using the normal field scoping syntax:
            <codeph>pachyderms:rhinoceros</codeph>.
          <codeblock>{
        "pachyderms": ["hippopotamus", "rhinoceros",  "elephant"]
}</codeblock></li>
    </ol></p>
    <section><title>Type Mappings</title>
<p>Couchbase Server indexes JSON documents differently depending on the type of the JSON document.
        For example, you can create a full text index that only includes documents of
        type="brewery," and you can specify exactly how you want the documents mapped. To do this,
        click <uicontrol>Add Type Mapping</uicontrol> and enter a type name that matches the type
        attribute of the JSON document you want to index.</p><p>There is also a special type mapping for the <i>Default Type</i>. The default type mapping is created for every index automatically and is used for any document whose type does not match another type mapping or that doesn’t have a type attribute. <note>You must disable the default mapping if you <i>only</i> want documents of the types that you specify to be in the index. If default mapping is enabled, Couchbase Server will use it to include all the documents in your index that don’t match another type mapping, which may or may not be what you want.</note></p>
      <p>Each type mapping in an index definition can be enabled or disabled. Disabling a type
        mapping can be used to ignore documents of a certain type. For example, if you want to index
        all documents in the beer-sample bucket <i>except</i> "breweries" you could simply create a
        type mapping for breweries and then check disabled (assuming the default mapping is also
        disabled).</p>
      <p>You can also specify an analyzer to use for a type mapping. This defaults to inheriting the
        Default Analyzer specified in "<uicontrol>Advanced</uicontrol>".</p>
      <p><b>Field Mapping</b></p>
      <p>For any type mapping, you can insert a child field to index the values in your JSON
        document with more control about what appears in the index and how. The word "field" in
        index mapping refers to a name-value pair in JSON whose value is a simple type: string,
        number, true, false, or null. These child fields refer to name-value pairs that are directly
        under an object. In the brewery sample below, <parmname>name</parmname>,
          <parmname>city</parmname>, and <parmname>description</parmname> are all fields.</p>
      <p>You can index the <parmname>description</parmname> field of every document in the
        beer-sample bucket, you can create an index, hover over the <i>default index</i>, click on
        the plus that appears, and select "<uicontrol>Insert child field</uicontrol>". Because both
        beers and breweries have a description field, this default mapping will end up with every
        document in it.
        <codeblock>{
          "name": "21st Amendment Brewery Cafe",
          "city": "San Francisco",
          ...
          "description": "The 21st Amendment Brewery offers a variety of award winning house made brews and American grilled cuisine in a comfortable loft like setting. Join us before and after Giants baseball games in our outdoor beer garden. A great location for functions and parties in our semi-private Brewers Loft. See you soon at the 21A!",
          "address": [
              "563 Second Street"
          ],
          "geo": {
              "accuracy": "ROOFTOP",
              "lat": 37.7825,
              "lon": -122.393
          }
}</codeblock></p>
      <p>There are four values and four checkboxes you can specify when you insert a child field. <ul>
          <li><parmname>field</parmname>: The name of name-value pair in the JSON document.</li>
          <li><parmname>type</parmname>: Defaults to text, but other possible values are object,
            number, datetime, and disabled. <note>Type object is not supported in Developer Preview
              and will cause an index mapping to fail.</note></li>
          <li><parmname>searchable as</parmname>: You can change the name that is written into the
            index, so if a user limits their search to a specific field they would use this value
            instead of the actual name of the field in the JSON. For example, if we mapped the field
              <parmname>description</parmname> "searchable as" <parmname>info</parmname>, instead of
            typing "description:semi-private", users would instead search for "info:semi-private". </li>
          <li><parmname>analyzer</parmname>: The analyzer to use for this specific field. </li>
        </ul>In addition, there are four checkboxes: <ul>
          <li><uicontrol>index</uicontrol>: If unchecked, fields that match this will not be
            indexed. If the store checkbox is checked, they will still be stored.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>store</uicontrol>: Normally, only the document IDs are written to the
            index. If this is checked, the document contents are also written to the index. This
            enables highlighting and result snippets but generally results in larger indexes that
            are slower to build. Since gets and multi-gets are quite fast, usually users don’t need
            to store the additional information in the index.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Include in _all field</uicontrol>: If this is checked, the text in this
            field will be searchable in query strings without prefixing the field name. If
            unchecked, the query must include this prefix, for example, "description:modern."</li>
          <li><uicontrol>include term vectors</uicontrol>: Term vectors are the locations of terms
            in a particular field. Some functionality, such as snippets, highlighting, and phrase
            search, requires term vectors and can’t be used without them. Not storing term vectors
            results in smaller indexes and faster index build times.</li>
        </ul> In this example, you would create the mapping like this:
        <codeblock>field: description
type: text
searchable as: description (automatically filled in)
analyzer: inherit</codeblock>
        Check "<uicontrol>store</uicontrol>" so that all four checkboxes are checked. This makes it
        easier to test and debug your new index because search results will include snippets with
        the search terms highlighted. The downside of storing the information is the extra size and
        time it takes to build, but these should be acceptable in this case.</p>
      <p>Field is the name of the name-value pair in the JSON. In our example, the
          <parmname>description</parmname> property is at the top level but if you need to map
        name-value pairs that are embedded in complex structures, you need to use a <xref
          href="#topic_cmy_jzk_1v/child-mapping" format="dita">child mapping</xref> instead.</p>
      <p id="child-mapping"><b>Insert Child Mapping</b></p>
      <p>Child Mappings are similar to field mappings, but instead of indexing simple values, they enable you to index embedded structures in a JSON document. Use a child mapping when the value of  a name-value pair is an object.</p>
      <p>For example, consider the brewery document in the beer sample bucket. This document
        contains an embedded object called "geo" that has three fields: accuracy, lat, and lon.
        <codeblock>"geo": {
          "accuracy": "ROOFTOP",
          "lat": 37.7825,
          "lon": -122.393
}   </codeblock>
        To create an index with an object mapping for the geo structure using the Web Console, do
        the following:<ol>
          <li>Create a type mapping for breweries.</li>
          <li>Insert a child mapping for the attribute "<parmname>geo</parmname>".</li>
          <li>In the "<parmname>geo structure</parmname>", insert a child field for
              "<parmname>accuracy</parmname>".</li>
          <li>Insert child fields for "<parmname>lat</parmname>" and "<parmname>lon</parmname>" and
            set them to type <codeph>number</codeph>.</li>
          <li>In a search on your newly created index, you can search the accuracy field using a dot
            syntax: "<codeph>geo.accuracy:rooftop</codeph>".</li>
          <li>You can also do range searches on the geo fields: "<codeph>geo.accuracy:rooftop
              +geo.lat:>37 +geo.lon:>141</codeph>".</li>
        </ol>The index definition you created will look like the example below. You can create the
        same index definition with object mappings using the REST API:
        <codeblock>{
    "type": "fulltext-index",
    "name": "beer-idx",
    "uuid": "af4c073428d51ed5",
    "sourceType": "couchbase",
    "sourceName": "beer-sample",
    "sourceUUID": "a6e631d6c59692d8a8e4280615afd727",
    "planParams": {
        "maxPartitionsPerPIndex": 32,
        "numReplicas": 0,
        "hierarchyRules": null,
        "nodePlanParams": null,
        "pindexWeights": null,
        "planFrozen": false
    },
    "params": {
        "mapping": {
            "analysis": {
              "analyzers": {},
              "char_filters": {},
              "token_filters": {},
              "token_maps": {},
              "tokenizers": {}
            },
            "byte_array_converter": "json",
            "default_analyzer": "standard",
            "default_datetime_parser": "dateTimeOptional",
            "default_field": "_all",
            "default_mapping": {
              "display_order": "1",
              "dynamic": true,
              "enabled": false,
              "fields": [],
              "properties": {}
            },
            "default_type": "_default",
            "type_field": "type",
            "types": {
              "brewery": {
                "display_order": "0",
                "dynamic": false,
                "enabled": true,
                "fields": [],
                "properties": {
                  "geo": {
                    "display_order": "0",
                    "dynamic": true,
                    "enabled": true,
                    "fields": [],
                    "properties": {
                        "accuracy": {
                          "dynamic": false,
                          "enabled": true,
                          "fields": [
                            {
                              "analyzer": "",
                              "date_format": null,
                              "display_order": "2",
                              "include_in_all": false,
                              "include_term_vectors": true,
                              "index": true,
                              "name": "accuracy",
                              "store": true,
                              "type": "text"
                            }
                          ],
                          "properties": {}
                        },
                        "lat": {
                          "dynamic": false,
                          "enabled": true,
                          "fields": [
                            {
                              "analyzer": "",
                              "date_format": null,
                              "display_order": "1",
                              "include_in_all": true,
                              "include_term_vectors": true,
                              "index": true,
                              "name": "lat",
                              "store": true,
                              "type": "number"
                            }      
                          ],
                          "properties": {}
                        },
                        "lon": {
                          "dynamic": false,
                          "enabled": true,
                          "fields": [
                            {
                              "analyzer": "",
                              "date_format": null,
                              "display_order": "0",
                              "include_in_all": true,
                              "include_term_vectors": true,
                              "index": true,
                              "name": "lon",
                              "store": true,
                              "type": "number"
                            }
                          ],
                          "properties": {}
                        }
                      }
                    }
                  }
                }
              }
        },
        "store": {
            "kvStoreName": "forestdb"
        }
    },
    "sourceParams": {
        "authPassword": "",
        "authSaslPassword": "",
        "authSaslUser": "",
        "authUser": "beer-sample",
        "clusterManagerBackoffFactor": 0,
        "clusterManagerSleepInitMS": 0,
        "clusterManagerSleepMaxMS": 2000,
        "dataManagerBackoffFactor": 0,
        "dataManagerSleepInitMS": 0,
        "dataManagerSleepMaxMS": 2000,
        "feedBufferAckThreshold": 0,
        "feedBufferSizeBytes": 0
    }
}</codeblock></p>
    </section> 
    <section> <title>Advanced Index Settings</title>
      <p><b>Type field </b></p>
      <p>By default, Couchbase Server will look for an attribute called "type" in your document and
        will use that for type mappings. You can change the name of the "type" field by clicking on
        the "<uicontrol>Advanced</uicontrol>" options and changing the value of the "<uicontrol>Type
          Field</uicontrol>".</p>
      <p><b>Default Type</b></p>
      <p>Documents that match the default type mapping rules are written to the index as being of
        this type. The field defaults to "<codeph>_default</codeph>", which you can change to avoid
        conflicts if "<codeph>_default</codeph>" is a valid type field value in your JSON
        documents.</p>
      <p><b>Default Analyzer  </b></p>
      <p>This analyzer is used by default when creating an index, if no other analyzer is specified.
        When you define your index mapping, you can override this value in a number of places, for
        example, when you create type mappings or field mappings.</p>
      <p><b>Default Date/Time Parser </b></p>
      <p>The name of a Date/Time parser that will be used to parse a date stored as a string. </p>
      <p id="def-field-all"><b>Default Field </b></p>
      <p>The default field is searched when a user query does not limit the scope of a search to a
        particular field. This is highly convenient because most of the time you want a user to be
        able to search for a term wherever it shows up in the index. For example, if you create a
        text index of breweries, as long as terms are included in the <codeph>_all</codeph> field,
        you can query "<codeph>La Jolla</codeph>" and find it without specifying "<codeph>name:la
          jolla</codeph>" or "<codeph>city:la jolla</codeph>". You would only need to change the
        name of this value if your JSON documents already include a field called
          "<codeph>_all</codeph>". </p>
    </section> 
    
  </body>
</topic>
