<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_kp4_qth_t5">
  
  <title>
    Full Text Search: Fundamentals
  </title>
  
  <shortdesc>
    <i>Full Text Search</i> (FTS) lets you create, manage, and query specially purposed <i>indexes</i>, 
    defined on JSON documents within a Couchbase bucket. 
  </shortdesc>
  
  <body>
    
    <section id="features-of-full-text-search">
      
      <title>
        Features of Full Text Search
      </title>
    
      <p>
        <i>Full Text Search</i> provides extensive capabilities for natural-language querying.
        These include: 
      </p>
        
        <ul>
          
          <li>
            <i>Language-aware</i> searching; allowing users to search for, say, the word
            <codeph>beauties</codeph>, and additionally obtain results 
            for <codeph>beauty</codeph> and <codeph>beautiful</codeph>.
            
            <p>
              
            </p>
          </li>
          
          <li>
            <i>Scoring</i> of results, according to relevancy; allowing
            users to obtain result-sets that only contain documents awarded the highest
            scores. This keeps result-sets manageably small, even when the total number of documents
            returned is extremely large. 
            
            <p>
              
            </p>
          </li>
          
          <li>
            <i>Fast indexes</i>, which support a wide range of possible text-searches. 
            
            <p>
              
            </p>
          </li>
          
          
          
        </ul>
      
      <p>
        Full Text Search is powered by <xref href="http://www.blevesearch.com/"
        format="html" scope="external">Bleve</xref>, an open source
        search and indexing library written in <i>Go</i>. Full Text Search uses
        Bleve for the indexing of documents, 
        and also makes available Bleve’s extensive range of <i>query types</i>. These include: 
      </p>
        
        <ul>
          <li>
            <i>Match</i>, <i>Match Phrase</i>, <i>Doc ID</i>, and <i>Prefix</i> queries
          </li>
          
          <li>
            <i>Conjunction</i>, <i>Disjunction</i>, and <i>Boolean field</i> queries
          </li>
          
          <li>
            <i>Numeric Range</i> and <i>Date Range</i> queries
          </li>
          
          <li>
            <i>Geospatial</i> queries
          </li>
          
          <li>
            <i>Query String</i> queries, which employ a special syntax to express the details of each query (see 
            <xref href="fts-query-types.dita#topic_jfq_fn4_1v/query-string-query-syntax">Query String Query</xref> 
            for information)
          </li>
          
        </ul> 
      
  <p>
        Full Text Search includes pre-built <i>text analyzers</i> for the 
        following languages: Arabic, CJK characters (Chinese, Japanese, and Korean), English, French, Hindi, Italian, Kurdish, Persian, and Portuguese. 
        Additional languages have been added to Couchbase Server 5.5.
      </p>
        
      <p>Full Text Search includes pre-built <i>text analyzers</i> for the 
        following languages: Arabic, CJK characters (Chinese, Japanese, and Korean), English, French, Hindi, Italian, Kurdish, Persian, and Portuguese. 
        Additional languages have been added to Couchbase Server 5.5.
      </p>
        
      <p>Additionally, Full Text Search <i>scores</i> documents
        by means of Bleve’s industry standard 
        <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tf%E2%80%93idf" format="html" scope="external">tf-idf</xref> scoring, with <i>query time boosting</i>.
      </p>
      
    </section>
    
    <section id="whats-new-in-this-release">
      
      <title>
        What's New in this Release
      </title>
      
      <p>
        The following features have been added, as part of the 5.0 release of Couchbase Server:
      </p>
      
      <ul>
        
        <li>
          <i>Support for Multi-Node Setups</i>. Within a Couchbase Server-cluster, Full Text 
          Indexes now work over multiple nodes that
          have the <i>Search</i> service enabled. Such indexes are automatically distributed
          into fragments called <i>pindexes</i> (partitioned indexes): this being similar
          to the way in which buckets are physically distributed across Couchbase nodes that are
          running the data service. 
          
          <p>
            
          </p>
        </li>
        
        <li>
          <i>Dynamic Topology Support</i>. Full Text Search not only runs on more than one Full Text
          Search node, but also continues to work <i>during topology changes</i>. For example, adding
          or removing nodes running the <i>Search</i> service results in pindexes being correspondingly moved
          to or from those nodes. Full Text Search indexes can also be replicated, for enhanced
          availability.
          <p>
            
          </p>
        </li>
        
        <li>
          <i>Partial Results Queries</i>. Every search returns the number of pindexes
          that succeeded, along with the search hits from those indexes, merged and sorted into a
          single result-set, thus providing a fault tolerance mechanism: the application developer has the option
          of using partial rather than full result-sets, if some pindexes fail to respond before timeout, 
          or respond with
          an error. 
          <p>
            
          </p>
        </li>
        
        <li>
          <i>Enhanced Indexing Performance</i>. Full Text Search indexing-speed is considerably enhanced, due to 
          increased memory-efficiency.
          <p>
            
          </p>
        </li>
        
        <li>
          <i>Support for Role Based Access Control</i> (RBAC).
          <p>
            
          </p>
        </li>
        
        <li>
          <i>Audit Logging</i>. Full Text Search activities now appear in audit logs.
          <p>
            
          </p>
        </li>
        
        <li>
          <i>Extended Statistics</i> on Full Text Search indexing and querying are now provided.
          <p>
            
          </p>
        </li>
        
      </ul>
      
    </section>
    
    <section>
      
      <title>
        Authorization for Full Text Search
      </title>
      
      <p>
        To access Full Text Search, users require appropriate <i>roles</i>. 
        The role <b>FTS Admin</b>
        must therefore be assigned to those who intend to create indexes; and the role <b>FTS Searcher</b> to those who intend to 
        perform searches. For information on creating users and assigning roles, see
        <xref href="../security/security-authorization.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Authorization</xref>.
      </p>
      
    </section>
    
  </body>
  
</topic>
