<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_g2m_5nk_3p">
 <title>Configuring the client</title>
 <shortdesc>While the client comes with reasonable default configuration settings, sometimes you
  need to customize the configuration for your unique environment or use case.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <section>
   <title>Programmatic configuration</title>
  <p>The client comes with a set of default values for its configuration. For the most part, these
				defaults are satisfactory for most development and production use. However, these values
				can be modified or overridden as needed to tune the client to specific use-cases and
				scenarios. The client can be configured in one of two ways: programmatically through the
					<codeph>ClientConfiguration</codeph> object or through the
					<codeph>App.Config</codeph> or <codeph>Web.Config</codeph>.
    You should choose one of the two in order to avoid precedence problems and configuration clashes.</p>
  <p><b>The ClientConfiguration object</b></p>
  <p>The client can be configured programmatically using the <apiname>ClientConfiguration</apiname> class and passing the custom configuration through one of the <apiname>Cluster</apiname> constructor overloads. Through the <apiname>ClientConfiguration</apiname> you can also
   configure individual buckets and their connection pools. </p>
  <p>Here is an example of overriding the default configuration settings with several overrides: </p>
  <p><codeblock outputclass="language-csharp" spectitle="ClientConfiguration example">
var config = new ClientConfiguration
{
  Servers = new List&lt;Uri&gt;
  {
    new Uri("http://192.168.56.101:8091/pools"),
    new Uri("http://192.168.56.102:8091/pools"),
    new Uri("http://192.168.56.103:8091/pools"),
    new Uri("http://192.168.56.104:8091/pools"),
  },
  UseSsl = true,
  DefaultOperationLifespan = 1000,
  BucketConfigs = new Dictionary&lt;string, BucketConfiguration&gt;
  {
    {"default", new BucketConfiguration
    {
      BucketName = "default",
      UseSsl = false,
      Password = "",
      DefaultOperationLifespan = 2000,
      PoolConfiguration = new PoolConfiguration
      {
        MaxSize = 10,
        MinSize = 5,
        SendTimeout = 12000
      }
    }}
  }
};

using (var cluster = new Cluster(config))
{
  IBucket bucket = null;
  try
  {
    bucket = cluster.OpenBucket();
    //use the bucket here
  }
  finally
  {
    if (bucket != null)
    {
      cluster.CloseBucket(bucket);
    }
   }
  }
}
		</codeblock></p>
  <p>At the top of the snippet, the code creates the <apiname>ClientConfiguration</apiname> object
				and uses property initializers to override the default settings. It then creates the
				bootstrap list of servers for initiating communication between the client and the
				cluster. The client attempts to bootstrap off of each of these servers. When it
				successfully connects with one of the servers in this list, the bootstrapping process
				ends. </p>
  <p>Why add more than one server to the bootstrap (Servers) list? It’s possible that one or more of
				the servers in that list might not be part of the cluster at the time the client is
				created. By providing a range of nodes as bootstrap candidates, the likelihood of the
				client finding a suitable node to connect to increases. After the client successfully
				bootstraps, it receives a server configuration of the current state of the cluster. It
				uses this server configuration to update the bootstrap list by adding any additional
				candidate bootstrap servers to it.</p>
  <p>Here are all of the <apiname>ClientConfiguration</apiname> members and their defaults:</p>
  <table id="table_ivc_5mc_3p">
   <title>ClientConfiguration properties</title>
   <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1" colwidth="1.32*"/>
          <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2" colwidth="2.49*"/>
          <colspec colnum="3" colname="col3" colwidth="1*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Name</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
              <entry>Default</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>UseSsl</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Whether or not to use SSL encrypt data being sent to and from the
                server</entry>
              <entry>false</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>SslPort</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Overrides the <codeph>DirectPort</codeph> and sets the SSL port to use for
								key-value operations using the binary memcached protocol id UseSsl is
								enabled</entry>
              <entry>11207</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>ApiPort</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The port to use for the Views API</entry>
              <entry>8092</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>DirectPort</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The port to use for standard memcached binary operations such as storing and
                retrieving documents by key</entry>
              <entry>11210</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>MgmtPort</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The port to use for the Management API</entry>
              <entry>8091</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>HttpsMgmtPort</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Overrides the <codeph>MgmtPort</codeph> and sets the SSL port to use for the
                Management API</entry>
              <entry>18091</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>HttpsApiPort</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Overrides the <codeph>ApiPort</codeph> and sets the SSL port to use for the
                Views API</entry>
              <entry>18092</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>OperationTimeout</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The amount of time the client will wait on a pending operation before timing
								out</entry>
              <entry>2500 ms</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>ObserveInterval</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The interval to wait before each Observe attempt</entry>
              <entry>10 ms</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>ObserveTimeout</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The maximum amount of time to wait before timing out</entry>
              <entry>500 ms</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>Servers</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The list of servers to bootstrap from</entry>
              <entry>http://localhost:8091/pools</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>MaxViewRetries</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The upper limit for the number of times a View request that has failed will be
                retried</entry>
              <entry>2</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>ViewHardTimeout</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The maximum amount of time that a View request takes before timing out. This
								includes time for retries.</entry>
              <entry>30000 ms</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>ViewRequestTimeout</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Sets the timeout for each HTTP View request.</entry>
              <entry>5000 ms</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>HeartbeatConfigInterval</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Sets the interval for configuration "heartbeat" checks, which check for changes
                in the configuration that are otherwise undetected by the client.</entry>
              <entry>10000 ms</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>EnableConfigHeartBeat</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Enables configuration heartbeat checks.</entry>
              <entry>true</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>DefaultConnectionLimit</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Gets or sets the maximum number of concurrent connections allowed by a
									<codeph>ServicePoint</codeph> object used for making View and N1QL
								requests.</entry>
              <entry>5</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>MaxServicePointIdleTime</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Gets or sets the maximum idle time of a <codeph>ServicePoint</codeph> object
								used for making View and N1QL requests.</entry>
              <entry>100,000 ms</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>Expect100Continue</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Gets or sets a Boolean value that determines whether 100-Continue behavior is
                used.</entry>
              <entry/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>DefaultOperationLifespan</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Gets or sets the default maximum time an operation is allowed to take (including
                processing and in-flight time on the wire).
                Note that in <codeph>App.config</codeph> this is
                set via <codeph>operationLifespan</codeph>
              </entry>
              <entry>2500ms</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
  </table>
  <p>In the ClientConfiguration example code snippet, the <codeph>UseSsl</codeph> property is set to
				true, indicating that all traffic between the client and the cluster will be encrypted.
				To use this feature, the server hosting the application needs to have the appropriate
				certificate installed and the cluster must be Couchbase Server version 3.0 or later.</p>
  <p>The ClientConfiguration example specifies a configuration for the <codeph>default</codeph>
				bucket. Providing a bucket level configuration overrides any configuration settings set
				at the cluster level. The <codeph>BucketConfiguration</codeph> members and their
				defaults are as follows:</p>
  <p>
   <table id="table_ww5_t4c_3p">
    <title>BucketConfiguration properties</title>
    <tgroup cols="3">
            <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2" colwidth="2.8*"/>
            <colspec colnum="3" colname="col3" colwidth="1.06*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Name</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
                <entry>Default</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>BucketName</codeph></entry>
                <entry>The name of the bucket to connect to.</entry>
                <entry>"default"</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>UseSsl</codeph></entry>
                <entry>Whether or not to use SSL encrypt data being sent to and from the
                  server</entry>
                <entry>false</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>Password</codeph></entry>
                <entry>The bucket password</entry>
                <entry>empty string</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>ObserveInterval</codeph></entry>
                <entry>The interval to wait before each Observe attempt</entry>
                <entry>10ms</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>ObserverTimeout</codeph></entry>
                <entry>The max amount of time to wait before timing out</entry>
                <entry>500ms</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>PoolConfiguration</codeph></entry>
                <entry>The TCP socket pool configuration</entry>
                <entry>(see below)</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><codeph>DefaultOperationLifespan</codeph></entry>
                <entry>The default lifespan for operations of this bucket (ie
                    maximum time taken by the operation, including processing
                    and in-flight time on the wire).
                    Note that in <codeph>App.config</codeph> this is
                    set via <codeph>operationLifespan</codeph>
                </entry>
                <entry>2500ms</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
   </table>
  </p>
  <p>Finally, in the ClientConfiguration example code snippet, it provides a new
					<codeph>PoolConfiguration</codeph>, which overrides the default
					<codeph>MaxSize</codeph> and <codeph>MinSize</codeph> of 2 and 1 respectively, with
				the values 5 and 2. This means that the pool will start with 2 TCP connections and grow
				to 5 TCP connections on demand. </p>
  <p>The rest of the <codeph>PoolConfiguration</codeph> members and their defaults: </p>
  <table id="table_nny_z4c_3p">
   <title>PoolConfiguration properties</title>
   <tgroup cols="3">
    <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
    <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
    <colspec colnum="3" colname="col3"/>
    <thead>
     <row>
      <entry dir="ltr">Name</entry>
      <entry dir="ltr">Description</entry>
      <entry dir="ltr">Default</entry>
     </row>
    </thead>
    <tbody>

     <row>
      <entry dir="ltr"><codeph>MaxSize</codeph></entry>
      <entry dir="ltr">The maximum number of TCP connection to use</entry>
      <entry dir="ltr">2</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry dir="ltr"><codeph>MinSize</codeph></entry>
      <entry dir="ltr">The minimum or starting number of TCP
       connections to use</entry>
      <entry dir="ltr">1</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry dir="ltr"><codeph>WaitTimeout</codeph></entry>
      <entry dir="ltr">The amount of time to wait for a TCP connection before timing out after the
									<codeph>MaxSize</codeph> has been reached and all connections are being
								used</entry>
      <entry dir="ltr">2500 ms</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry dir="ltr"><codeph>ShutdownTimeout</codeph></entry>
      <entry dir="ltr">The amount of time to wait  before the underlying socket closes its
								connection</entry>
      <entry dir="ltr">10000 ms</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry dir="ltr"><codeph>SendTimeout</codeph></entry>
      <entry dir="ltr">The amount of time to allow between an operation being written on the socket
                                and being acknowledged.</entry>
      <entry dir="ltr">15000 ms</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry dir="ltr"><codeph>UseSsl</codeph></entry>
      <entry dir="ltr">Whether or not to use SSL encrypt data being
       sent to and from the server</entry>
      <entry dir="ltr">false</entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </table>
  <p>The example source can be found on GitHub <xref href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/couchbase-net-examples/blob/master/Src/Couchbase.ClientConfigurationExample/Program.cs" format="html" scope="external">here</xref>.</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Configuration with an App.Config or Web.Config</title>
   <p>As an alternative to using programmatic configuration, you can also configure the client
				through an <filepath>App.config</filepath> or <filepath>Web.config</filepath>. The
				following snippet illustrates how you would do so:</p>
   <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">
&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?&gt;
&lt;configuration&gt;
  &lt;configSections&gt;
    &lt;sectionGroup name="couchbaseClients"&gt;
      &lt;section name="couchbase"
               type="Couchbase.Configuration.Client.Providers.CouchbaseClientSection, Couchbase.NetClient"/&gt;
    &lt;/sectionGroup&gt;
  &lt;/configSections&gt;
  &lt;couchbaseClients&gt;
    &lt;couchbase useSsl="false" operationLifeSpan="1000"&gt;
      &lt;servers&gt;
        &lt;add uri="http://192.168.56.101:8091/pools"&gt;&lt;/add&gt;
        &lt;add uri="http://192.168.56.102:8091/pools"&gt;&lt;/add&gt;
        &lt;add uri="http://192.168.56.103:8091/pools"&gt;&lt;/add&gt;
        &lt;add uri="http://192.168.56.104:8091/pools"&gt;&lt;/add&gt;
      &lt;/servers&gt;
      &lt;buckets&gt;
        &lt;add name="default" useSsl="false" password="" operationLifespan="2000"&gt;
          &lt;connectionPool name="custom" maxSize="10" minSize="5" sendTimeout="12000"&gt;&lt;/connectionPool&gt;
        &lt;/add&gt;
      &lt;/buckets&gt;
    &lt;/couchbase&gt;
  &lt;/couchbaseClients&gt;
    &lt;startup&gt;
        &lt;supportedRuntime version="v4.0" sku=".NETFramework,Version=v4.5.1" /&gt;
    &lt;/startup&gt;
&lt;/configuration&gt;
		</codeblock>
   <p>This the same configuration programmatically defined earlier in this section using the
					<codeph>ClientConfiguration</codeph> class.</p>
   <p>To use this configuration, you need to use one of the special <codeph>Cluster</codeph>
        constructors that takes a string containing the path of the configuration:</p>
   <p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">
using (var cluster = new Cluster("couchbaseClients/couchbase"))
{
  using (var bucket = cluster.OpenBucket())
  {
    //use the bucket here
  }
}
			</codeblock>
   </p>
   <p>That the string <codeph>couchbaseClients/couchbase</codeph> matches the path of the
					<codeph>sectionGroup</codeph> and <codeph>section</codeph> elements in the
					<filepath>App.config</filepath> defined above. This example can be found on Github
					<xref
					href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/couchbase-net-examples/tree/master/Src/Couchbase.ClientConfigurationExample.WebConfig"
					format="html" scope="external">here.</xref>
			</p>
  </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
