<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept_z3r_zgq_44">
	<title>Overview</title>
	<shortdesc> The Couchbase .NET SDK 2.0 is the official .NET client library for Couchbase Server.
		Written entirely in the C# programming language, it targets .NET Framework 4.5 and later and
		Couchbase Server 2.5 and later.</shortdesc>


	<concept id="dotnet-compatibility">
		<title>Compatibility</title>
		<conbody>
			<p>To take advantage of all features offered by Couchbase Server, you need to know what
				version of the SDK provides compatibility for the features you want to use. The
				following matrix shows which versions of the SDK support the major features of each
				version of Couchbase Server.</p>
			<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_r3n_mwp_hp">
				<title>Couchbase Server and SDK Supported Feature Matrix</title>
				<tgroup cols="5">
					<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="4.4*" />
					<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="4.4*" />
					<colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="4.4*" />
					<colspec colname="c4" colnum="4" colwidth="4.4*" />
					<colspec colname="c5" colnum="5" colwidth="4.4*" />
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry />
							<entry align="center">Server 1.8</entry>
							<entry align="center">Server 2.0</entry>
							<entry align="center">Server 2.5</entry>
							<entry align="center">Server 3.0</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry namest="c1" nameend="c5">
								<b>Basic Features</b>
							</entry>
						</row>

						<row>
							<entry>K/V Operations</entry>
							<entry align="center">1.0</entry>
							<entry align="center">1.0</entry>
							<entry align="center">1.0/2.0</entry>
							<entry align="center">1.0/2.0</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>View API</entry>
							<entry align="center">-</entry>
							<entry align="center">1.0</entry>
							<entry align="center">1.0/2.0</entry>
							<entry align="center">1.0/2.0</entry>
						</row>

						<row>
							<entry namest="c1" nameend="c5">
								<b>Advanced Features</b>
							</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>N1QL API</entry>
							<entry align="center">-</entry>
							<entry align="center">-</entry>
							<entry align="center">-</entry>
							<entry align="center">2.0</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>Document API</entry>
							<entry align="center">-</entry>
							<entry align="center">-</entry>
							<entry align="center">2.0</entry>
							<entry align="center">2.0</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>Durability Requirements</entry>
							<entry align="center">-</entry>
							<entry align="center">1.0</entry>
							<entry align="center">1.0/2.0</entry>
							<entry align="center">1.0/2.0</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>SSL</entry>
							<entry align="center">-</entry>
							<entry align="center">-</entry>
							<entry align="center">-</entry>
							<entry align="center">2.0</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>CRAM MD5 Auth</entry>
							<entry align="center">-</entry>
							<entry align="center">-</entry>
							<entry align="center">-</entry>
							<entry align="center">2.0</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>Bulk Operations</entry>
							<entry align="center">1.0</entry>
							<entry align="center">1.0</entry>
							<entry align="center">1.0/2.0</entry>
							<entry align="center">1.0/2.0</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>CCCP (fast bootstrapping)</entry>
							<entry align="center">-</entry>
							<entry align="center">-</entry>
							<entry align="center">2.0</entry>
							<entry align="center">2.0</entry>
						</row>

						<row>
							<entry namest="c1" nameend="c5">
								<b>Administrative Features</b>
							</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>Admin API</entry>
							<entry align="center">-</entry>
							<entry align="center">1.0</entry>
							<entry align="center">1.0/2.0</entry>
							<entry align="center">1.0/2.0</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
		</conbody>
	</concept>

	<concept id="dotnet-contributing">
		<title>Contributing</title>
		<conbody>
			<p>We welcome community contributions to the .NET SDK. The .<xref
					href="https://github.com/couchbase/couchbase-net-client" format="html"
					scope="external">NET SDK source code</xref> is available on GitHub.</p>


			<section>
				<title>GitHub</title>

				<p>All source code associated with the project lives in GitHub in the following repository:
						<xref href="https://github.com/couchbase/couchbase-net-client" format="html"
						scope="external">https://github.com/couchbase/couchbase-net-client</xref>. </p>
				<p>These are the current active branches in the GitHub repository:</p>
				<p>
					<ul>
						<li><xref href="https://github.com/couchbase/couchbase-net-client/tree/release13"
								format="html" scope="external">release13</xref>: development branch for
							version 1.x</li>
						<li><xref href="https://github.com/couchbase/couchbase-net-client/tree/master"
								format="html" scope="external">master</xref>: development branch for
							2.x</li>
					</ul>
				</p>
				<p>Submit pull requests to the appropriate branch based upon the version of the SDK that
					the submission is targeting.</p>
			</section>
			<section>
				<title>Contributor license agreement</title>
				<p>All pull requests must go through a review process before being merged into their
					respective branches on GitHub. A prerequisite for accepting a pull request is that
					the contributor has read and signed the Couchbase Contributor License Agreement
					(CLA). This can be done through Gerrit, our code review system.</p>
				<p>Gerrit is the official code review system for the Couchbase SDKs. Community members who want
					to contribute must create a Gerrit account and sign the CLA. The steps for doing this
					are as follows: </p>
				<p>
					<ol>
						<li>Navigate to <xref href="http://review.couchbase.org" format="html"
								scope="external">http://review.couchbase.org</xref>.</li>
						<li>From the menu at the top right-hand side of the page, select
								<uicontrol>Register</uicontrol>. </li>
						<li>Use a Google account, a Yahoo account, or any other <xref
								href="http://openid.net/get-an-openid/" format="html" scope="external"
								>OpenID</xref> account to register.</li>
						<li>After you have signed in you will be prompted to verify your email and provide
							a user name.</li>
						<li>At the very bottom of the page, click <uicontrol>New Contributor Agreement</uicontrol> and
							follow the directions to sign the CLA.</li>
						<li>Click <uicontrol>Submit Agreement</uicontrol>.</li>
					</ol>
				</p>
				<p>After you have signed the CLA, it’s official, you can now contribute to the Couchbase .NET
					SDK!</p>
			</section>
			<section>
				<title>Code review process</title>
				<p>The typical flow of a community contribution is through a <xref
						href="https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests" format="html"
						scope="external">pull request</xref>. Locally, you <xref
						href="https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo" format="html" scope="external"
						>clone</xref> the GitHub repository, make your changes, and then <xref
						href="https://help.github.com/articles/pushing-to-a-remote" format="html"
						scope="external">push </xref>your changes to your fork of the repository. From
					your fork of the repository on GitHub, you create a pull request and submit it to the
					appropriate branch. The maintainer of the SDK decides whether to accept or deny the
					pull request. If the maintainer decides to accept the pull request, then they will
					push the pull request to <xref href="https://code.google.com/p/gerrit/" format="html"
						scope="external">Gerrit</xref>, the code review system used internally within
					Couchbase.</p>
				<p>Gerrit uses the concepts of <term>change sets</term> and <term>patch sets</term>. A
					change set is the submission under review, and a patch set is an amendment to that
					change set. </p>
				<p>After the submission has been pushed to Gerrit, it is reviewed by one or more Couchbase
					engineers. Very likely this will be the maintainer of the SDK. The reviewer may ask
					for several patch sets to be committed before approving a submission.</p>
				<p>Reviewers rank the change set with one of the following values:</p>
				<p>
					<ul>
						<li>+2 - Looks good to me, approved</li>
						<li>+1 - Looks good, but someone else must approve</li>
						<li> 0 - No score</li>
						<li>-1 - I would prefer you do not submit this</li>
						<li>-2 - Do not submit</li>
					</ul>
				</p>
				<p> Typically, only submissions ranked +2 are accepted.</p>
				<p>After the submission has made it through code review, it is pushed from Gerrit to GitHub by
					the SDK maintainer.</p>
			</section>
		</conbody>
	</concept>

</concept>
