<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="cbcli-xdcr">
  <title>XDCR-misc</title>
  <shortdesc>XDCR commands used with the <codeph>couchbase-cli</codeph> tool.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>Remote XDCR replications, connections, and operations are managed with the following XDCR
        commands and options.</p>
      
    </section>
    
    <section><title>CLI commands and parameters</title>
      
      <table frame="all" id="table_drj_bcn_c4">
        <title>couchbase-cli xdcr commands</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.99*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Command</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>xdcr-setup</entry>
              <entry>Manage the XDCR replication configuration.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>setting-xdcr</entry>
              <entry>Set XDCR related replication settings.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>xdcr-replicate</entry>
              <entry>Manage the XDCR replication operations.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>ssl-manage</entry>
              <entry>Manage cluster SSL certificate.</entry>
            </row>
            
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      
      
      <p>The following are <codeph>couchbase-cli xdcr-setup</codeph> options.</p>
      <table frame="all" id="table_xdcr-setup">
        <title>xdcr-setup options</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.99*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>xdcr-setup options</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>--create</entry>
              <entry>Creates a new XDCR configuration.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--edit</entry>
              <entry>Modifies an existing XDCR configuration.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--delete</entry>
              <entry>Deletes an existing XDCR configuration.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--list</entry>
              <entry>Lists all XDCR configurations.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--xdcr-cluster-name=[clustername]</entry>
              <entry>Cluster name.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--xdcr-hostname=[hostname]</entry>
              <entry>Remote host name to connect to.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--xdcr-username=[username]</entry>
              <entry>Remote cluster administrator username.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--xdcr-password=[password</entry>
              <entry>Remote cluster administrator password.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--xdcr-demand-encryption=[0 | 1]</entry>
              <entry>Enables and disables data encrypted using ssl. True is 1 and enables data encryption. False is 0 and disables data encryption. Default: 0</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--xdcr-certificate=[certificate]</entry>
              <entry>Pem-encoded certificate. This self-signed certificate must be present if xdcr-demand-encryption is true.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
            
            
            <p>The following are <codeph>couchbase-cli setting-xdcr</codeph> options.</p>
            <table frame="all" id="table_setting-xdcr">
              <title>setting-xdcr options</title>
              <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
                <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.99*"/>
                <thead>
                  <row>
                    <entry>setting-xdcr options</entry>
                    <entry>Description</entry>
                  </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                  <row>
                    <entry>--max-concurrent-reps=[32]</entry>
                    <entry>Maximum concurrent replications per bucket, 8 to 256.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>--checkpoint-interval=[1800]</entry>
                    <entry>Intervals between checkpoints, 60 to 14400 seconds.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>--worker-batch-size=[500]</entry>
                    <entry>Document worker batch size, 500 to 10000.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>--doc-batch-size=[2049]KB</entry>
                    <entry>Document batching size, 10 to 100000 KB.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>--failure-restart-interval=[30]</entry>
                    <entry>Interval for restarting failed XDCR, 1 to 300 seconds.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>--optimistic-replication-threshold=[256]</entry>
                    <entry>Document body size threshold (bytes) to trigger optimistic replication.</entry>
                  </row>
                </tbody>
              </tgroup>
            </table>
      
     
      
      <p>The following are <codeph>couchbase-cli xdcr-replicate</codeph> options.</p>
      <table frame="all" id="table_xdcr-replicate">
        <title>xdcr-replicate options</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.99*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>xdcr-replicate options</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>--create</entry>
              <entry>Create and start a new replication</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--delete</entry>
              <entry>Stop and cancel a replication</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--list</entry>
              <entry>List all XDCR replications</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--pause</entry>
              <entry>Pause the replication</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--resume</entry>
              <entry>Resume the replication</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--settings</entry>
              <entry>Update settings for the replication</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--xdcr-replicator=[replicator]</entry>
              <entry>Replication ID</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--xdcr-from-bucket=[bucket-name]</entry>
              <entry>Local bucket name to replicate from</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--xdcr-cluster-name=[remote-cluster]</entry>
              <entry>Remote cluster to replicate to</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--xdcr-to-bucket=[remote-bucket]</entry>
              <entry>Remote bucket to replicate to</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--max-concurrent-reps =[ 16 ]</entry>
              <entry>Maximum concurrent replications per bucket, 8 to 256. Default: 16</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--checkpoint-interval =[ 1800 ]</entry>
              <entry>Intervals between checkpoints , 60 to 14400 seconds</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--worker-batch-size =[ 500 ]</entry>
              <entry>Document worker batch size, 500 to 10000</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--doc-batch size =[ 2048 ] KB</entry>
              <entry>Document batch size, 10 to 100000 KB</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--failure-restart-interval =[ 30 ]</entry>
              <entry>Interval for restarting failed xdcr, 1 to 300 seconds</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--optimistic-replication-threshold =[ 256 ]</entry>
              <entry>Document body size threshold (bytes) to trigger optimistic replication</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--xdcr-replication-mode=[xmem | capi]</entry>
              <entry>Replication protocol, either capi or xmem</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      
      <p>The following are <codeph>couchbase-cli ssl-manage</codeph> options. This option is
        available for Enterprise Edition only.</p>
      
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1"
        id="table_ssl-manage">
        <title>ssl-manage command options</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>ssl-manage options (Enterprise Edition only)</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>--retrieve-cert=[certificate]</entry>
              <entry>Retrieves the self-signed certificate from the destination cluster to the
                source cluster. Specify a local location (full path) and file name for the
                pem-encoded certificate. For example,
                <codeph>--retrieve-cert=./newCert.pem</codeph>.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--regenerate-cert=[certificate]</entry>
              <entry>Regenerates a self-signed certificate on the destination cluster. Specify the
                full path for the location of the pem-encoded certificate file. For example,
                <codeph>--regenerate-cert=./newRegen.pem</codeph>.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    
    </section>
    

    <section><title>Example: Creating a remote cluster reference</title>
      <p>To create a remote cluster reference:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli xdcr-setup -c 10.3.121.121:8091 -u Administrator  -p password 
    --create 
    --xdcr-cluster-name=RemoteCluster  
    --xdcr-hostname=10.3.121.123:8091  
    --xdcr-username=Administrator  
    --xdcr-password=password
</codeblock>
      
      

      
      <p>Upon success, the following response is returned:</p>
      <codeblock>SUCCESS: init RemoteCluster</codeblock>
      
      <p>Now, you can start replication to the remote cluster using memcached protocol as the existing
        default:</p>
      
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli xdcr-replicate -c 10.3.121.123:8091 -u Administrator -p password 
        --xdcr-cluster-name RemoteCluster 
        --xdcr-from-bucket default 
        --xdcr-to-bucket backup
      </codeblock>
      
      <p>An XDCR protocol for the mode of replication can be specified for XDCR. 
        To explicitly set the protocol to memcached:</p>
      
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli xdcr-replicate -c 10.3.121.123:8091 -u Administrator -p password
    --xdcr-cluster-name RemoteCluster 
    --xdcr-from-bucket default 
    --xdcr-to-bucket backup 
    --xdcr-replication-mode xmem
      </codeblock>
      
      <p>To set the protocol to CAPI:</p>
      
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli xdcr-replicate -c 10.3.121.123:8091 -u Administrator -p password
    --xdcr-cluster-name=RemoteCluster 
    --xdcr-from-bucket=default 
    --xdcr-to-bucket=backup
    --xdcr-replication-mode=capi
      </codeblock>
      
      <p>To change a XDCR replication protocol for an existing XDCR replication:</p>
      
      <ol>
        <li>Delete the replication.</li>
        <li>Re-create the replication with your preference.</li>
      </ol>
      
      <p>If there is already an existing replication for a bucket, you get an error when starting the
        replication again with new settings:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli xdcr-replicate -c 10.3.121.121:8091 -u Administrator -p password 
    --xdcr-cluster-name=RemoteCluster 
    --xdcr-from-bucket=default 
    --xdcr-to-bucket=backup
    --xdcr-replication-mode=capi
      </codeblock>
      
      <p>Results in the following error:</p>
      <codeblock>ERROR: unable to create replication (400) Bad Request
        {u'errors': {u'_': u'Replication to the same remote cluster and bucket already exists'}}
ERROR: Replication to the same remote cluster and bucket already exists
      </codeblock>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Example: Listing XDCR remote clusters</title>
      <p>In the following example, the <codeph>couchbase-cli xdcr-setup</codeph> command is executed 
        from the local host and the specified host is the remote host. 
        To list all XDCR configurations:</p>
      <codeblock>
couchbase-cli xdcr-setup 
  -c 10.5.2.117:8091 
  -u Administrator -p password 
  --list        
      </codeblock>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Example: Listing XDCR replication streams</title>
      
      <p>In the following example, the <codeph>couchbase-cli xdcr-replicate</codeph> command is executed 
        from the local host and the specified host is the remote host. 
        To list all XDCR replication streams:</p>
      <codeblock>
couchbase-cli xdcr-replicate 
  -c 10.5.2.117:8091 
  -u Administrator -p password 
  --list        
      </codeblock>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Response</title>
      <p>The follow response example is for the <codeph>couchbase-cli xdcr-setup --list</codeph>
        command option and shows the local host, UUID, URI, and user name:</p>
      <codeblock>
cluster name: source1
      uuid: bfa861d3734c90559522a88b9db81606
      host name: 10.5.2.54:8091
      user name: Administrator
      uri: /pools/default/remoteClusters/source1
      </codeblock>
      
      
      <p>The follow response example is for the <codeph>couchbase-cli xdcr-replicate --list</codeph>
        command option and shows the replication stream from the source bucket to the remote
        bucket:</p>
      <codeblock>
stream id: bfa861d3734c90559522a88b9db81606/test2/test
   status: running
   source: test2
   target: /remoteClusters/bfa861d3734c90559522a88b9db81606/buckets/test
      </codeblock>
    
    
    </section>



  </refbody>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <link href="../../XDCR/xdcr-intro.dita"/>
      <link href="../../Tasks/tasks-manage-xdcr-dataEncryption.dita"></link>
      <link href="../../Tasks/tasks-manage-xdcr.dita"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</reference>
