<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="cbcli-rza">
   <title><cmdname>group-manage</cmdname></title>
   <shortdesc>Manages server groups (Enterprise Edition only).</shortdesc>


   <refbody>
      <section><title>Syntax</title>
         <p>The basic syntax is:</p>
         
         <codeblock>couchbase-cli group-manage -c [localhost]:8091 -u [admin] -p [password]   
    --create
    --delete
    --list
    --group-name=GROUPNAME
    --rename=NEWGROUPNAME
    --add-servers=HOST[:PORT],HOST[:PORT]
    --move-servers=HOST[:PORT],HOST[:PORT]
    --from-groupname=GROUPNAME
    --to-group=GROUPNAME
    --services=data, index, query</codeblock>
      </section>
      
      <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>To configure servers into groups, use the <cmdname>group-manage</cmdname> command.</p>
         <p>The Rack-Zone Awareness feature provides the ability to specify that active and
            corresponding replica partitions be created on servers that are part of a separate rack
            or zone. It enables logical groupings of servers on a cluster where each server group
            physically belongs to a rack or Availability Zone. Upgrade all server in a cluster to
            enable Rack-Zone Awareness.</p>

      
      <note type="note">The Rack-Zone Awareness feature with its server group capability is an
         Enterprise Edition feature.</note>
      </section>
      
      <section><title>Options</title>
         <p>The following are the command options:</p>
         <table>
            <title>group-manage options</title>
            <tgroup cols="2">
               <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
               <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.5*"/>
               <thead>
                  <row>
                     <entry>Option</entry>
                     <entry>Description</entry>
                  </row>
               </thead>
               <tbody>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>--create</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Create a new group.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>--delete</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Deletes an empty group.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>--list</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Show the group/server relationship map.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>--group-name=GROUPNAME</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Group name.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>--rename=NEWGROUPNAME</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Renames an existing group.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>--add-servers=HOST [:PORT],HOST[:PORT]</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Adds servers to a group.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>--from-group=GROUPNAME</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>The name of the group from which you are removing the servers.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>--to-group=GROUPNAME</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>The name of the group from to which you are adding the servers.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>--services=[data | index | query]</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Services that run on the server. To specify multiple services, separate
                        the service with a semi-colon. For example,
                           <codeph>--services=data;index</codeph>.</entry>
                  </row>
               </tbody>
            </tgroup>
         </table>

      </section>
      
   
      
      <section><title>Examples</title><p>A server group is created:</p><note type="note">The command
            using the <codeph>-create --group-name</codeph> options can fail when an exclamation (!)
            is present inside the group name.
         </note>
         
         <codeblock>couchbase-cli group-manage -c 192.168.0.1:8091  -u myAdminName  -p myAdminPassword 
   --create --group-name=myGroupName</codeblock>Two
         servers are added to a server group using the <codeph>group-manage</codeph>
            command.<codeblock>couchbase-cli group-manage -c 192.168.0.1:8091  -u myAdminName   -p myAdminPassword
   --group-name=myNewGroup
   --add-servers="10.1.1.1:8091;10.1.1.2:8091"</codeblock>
         <p>A
            server is added to the server group using the <codeph>server-add</codeph>
            command.</p>
         <note type="note">The <cmdname>group-manage</cmdname> command is the
            preferred method for adding servers to server group.</note>
         
        
         <p>One
            server with both the data and query services enabled is added to a server group using
            the <codeph>group-manage</codeph>
            command.</p><codeblock>couchbase-cli group-manage -c 192.168.0.1:8091 
   -u myAdminName
   -p myAdminPassword
   --group-name=myNewGroup
   --create
   --add-servers=10.1.1.1:8091
   --services=data;query</codeblock><p>Two
            servers are moved from one server group to another using the
               <codeph>group-manage</codeph>
         command.</p><codeblock>couchbase-cli group-manage -c 192.168.0.1:8091 
   -u myAdminName
   -p myAdminPassword
   --from-group=myFirstGroup
   --to-group=mySecondGroup
   --move-servers="10.1.1.1:8091;10.1.1.2:8091"</codeblock></section>
   
   </refbody>
</reference>
