<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_hhk_gmn_ls">
  <title><cmdname>bucket-edit</cmdname></title>
  <shortdesc>Modifies an existing bucket.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <p>The basic syntax is:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli bucket-edit -c [host]:8091 -u [admin] -p [password] [options]</codeblock>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Description</title><p>The command <cmdname>bucket-edit</cmdname> edits an existing bucket. 
      It has the subset of options available for the other
      <cmdname>bucket-*</cmdname> commands. </p></section> 
    
    
    <section><title>Options</title>
      <p>The following are the command options:</p> 
      <table>
        <title>bucket-edit options</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.76*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Option</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--bucket=BUCKETNAME</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Named bucket to act on.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--bucket-eviction-policy=[valueOnly|fullEviction]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Define the eviction policy: full eviction or value-only eviction.
                <note spectitle="Important">Changing the bucket ejection policy will invoke a bucket restart, resulting in temporary inaccessibility of data while the bucket warms up</note></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--bucket-password=PASSWORD</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Bucket password.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--bucket-priority=[low|high]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Bucket priority compared to other buckets. 
                <note spectitle="Important">Changing the bucket priority will invoke a bucket restart, resulting in temporary inaccessibility of data while the bucket warms up</note></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--bucket-ramsize=RAMSIZEMB</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Bucket RAM quota in MB.<note type="note">This option does not apply to
                  memcached-style buckets since you cannot change the RAM quota on a memcached
                  bucket.</note></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--bucket-replica=COUNT</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Replication count.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--bucket-type=TYPE</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Bucket type, either memcached or Couchbase.
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--enable-flush=[0|1]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Enables and disables flush (enable=1, disable=0).</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table> 
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Examples</title>
      <p>To edit a bucket for RAM size:</p>
      
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli bucket-edit -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password \ 
--bucket=test_bucket --bucket-ramsize=200</codeblock>
      <p>To modify a bucket to high priority:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli bucket-edit -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password \
--bucket=test_bucket --bucket-priority=high</codeblock> 
      <p>To modify a dedicated port bucket and set the eviction policy to
        <codeph>fullEviction</codeph>:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli bucket-edit -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password \ 
--bucket=test_bucket --bucket-ramsize=400 \ 
--bucket-eviction-policy=fullEviction --enable-flush=1 </codeblock>
    
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
