<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_llp_znv_sq">
  <title><cmdname>bucket-create</cmdname></title>
  <shortdesc>Adds a new bucket to a cluster. </shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <title>Syntax</title>
      <p>The basic syntax is:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli bucket-create -c [host]:8091 -u [admin] -p [password]
       --bucket=[bucket-name]
       --bucket-eviction-policy=[valueOnly | fullEviction]
       --bucket-type=[type]
       --bucket-port=[port]
       --bucket-ramsize=[size]
       --bucket-priority=high 
       --bucket-replica=[replicas]
       --enable-flush=[0 | 1] 
       --wait</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Description</title>
      <p>This command adds a new bucket to a cluster. It has most of the options available for the
        other <cmdname>bucket-*</cmdname> commands. </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Options</title>
      <p>The following are the command options:</p>
      <table>
        <title>bucket-create options</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1.08*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Option</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--bucket=BUCKETNAME</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Named bucket to act on.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--bucket-ramsize=RAMSIZEMB</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Bucket RAM quota in MB.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--bucket-replica=COUNT</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Replication count.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--bucket-type=TYPE</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Bucket type, either memcached or Couchbase.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--bucket-priority=[low|high]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Bucket priority compared to other buckets.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--bucket-password=PASSWORD</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Depends on the selected port.*</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--bucket-eviction-policy=[valueOnly|fullEviction]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Define the eviction policy: <codeph>full eviction </codeph>or
                  <codeph>value-only</codeph> eviction.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--enable-flush=[0|1]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Enables and disables flush (yes=1, no=0).</entry>
            </row>
           
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--enable-index-replica=[0|1]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Enables a defined number of replicas (yes=1, no=0)..</entry>
            </row>   
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--bucket-port=PORT</codeph></entry>
              <entry>TCP port 11211 with SASL authentication, or a dedicated port  with no password.
                *</entry>
            </row>
           
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--wait</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Wait for the creation of the bucket to be completed before returning.</entry>
            </row>
          
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <p>* If you use a standard port, it will be the TCP port <codeph>11211</codeph> which requires
        SASL authentication. Therefore, a bucket password will be a bucket-specific SASL password.
        The SASL user will be the bucket name itself. </p>
      <p>On the other hand, if you choose to select a dedicated port that supports ASCII protocol
        and doesn't require authentication, you don’t need to specify a password. </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Examples</title>
      <p>To create a new dedicated port couchbase bucket:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli bucket-create -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password \ 
--bucket=test_bucket --bucket-type=couchbase --bucket-port=11222 \ 
--bucket-ramsize=200 --bucket-replica=1</codeblock>
      <p>To create a Couchbase bucket and wait for bucket ready:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli bucket-create -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password \ 
--bucket=test_bucket --bucket-type=couchbase --bucket-port=11222 \ 
--bucket-ramsize=200 --bucket-replica=1 --wait</codeblock>
      <p>To create a new sasl memcached bucket:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli bucket-create -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password \ 
--bucket=test_bucket --bucket-type=memcached --bucket-password=password \ 
--bucket-ramsize=200 --enable-flush=1 --enable-index-replica=1</codeblock>
      <p>To create a new couchbase bucket with a high priority:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli bucket-create -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password \
--bucket=test_bucket --bucket-type=couchbase --bucket-port=11222 \ 
--bucket-ramsize=200 --bucket-replica=1 --bucket-priority=high   </codeblock>
      <p>To create a new sasl bucket and set the eviction policy to <codeph>valueOnly</codeph>:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli bucket-create -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password \ 
--bucket=test_bucket --bucket-password=password --bucket-ramsize=200 \
--bucket-eviction-policy=valueOnly --enable-flush=1</codeblock>
    </section>
  </refbody>
  <related-links>
    <link href="../../architecture/db-engine-architecture.dita#concept_b5n_bwn_vs"/>
  </related-links>
</reference>
