<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">

<reference id="reference_jx1_xn5_ls">
  <title><cmdname>cluster-init</cmdname></title>
  <shortdesc>Sets the user name, password, port, RAM size and services for a cluster.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <p>The basic syntax is:</p>

      <codeblock>couchbase-cli cluster-init -c [host]:8091 -u [admin] -p [password] [options]</codeblock>

    </section>
    
    <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>The <cmdname>cluster-init</cmdname> defines the cluster settings: user name, password,
        cluster port, RAM size and services. </p>
      
    </section>
    
    
    <section><title>Options</title>
      <p>The following are the command options:</p>
      <table><title>cluster-init options</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Option</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--cluster-username=USER</codeph></entry>
              <entry>New administrative user name.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--cluster-password=PASSWORD</codeph></entry>
              <entry>New administrator's password.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--cluster-port=PORT</codeph></entry>
              <entry>New cluster REST/HTTP port.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--cluster-ramsize=RAMSIZEMB</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Per node RAM quota in MB for the data service. </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--cluster-index-ramsize=RAMSIZEMB</codeph></entry>
              <entry>
                <p>Per node RAM quota in MB for the index service.</p>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--services=data,index,query</codeph></entry>

              <entry>Services that Couchbase Server runs.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Examples</title>
      <p>To set the cluster's user name and password:</p>
      
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli cluster-init -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password \
--cluster-username=Admnin1 --cluster-password=Password1</codeblock>
    
    <p>To set up a cluster with a user name, password, port, and RAM quota separately for the index
        service, data service, and query service, update the following command with appropriate
        values:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli cluster-init OPTIONS: \
--cluster-username=USER //new admin username 
--cluster-password=PASSWORD //new admin password \
--cluster-port=PORT //new cluster REST/http port \
--cluster-ramsize=RAMSIZEMB //per node data service ram quota in MB \
--cluster-index-ramsize=RAMSIZEMB //per node index service ram quota in MB \
--services=data,index,query //services that server runs</codeblock> 
  

<p>The following example sets up a cluster with a user name, password, port, RAM quota for the data,
        index, and query services:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli cluster-init -c 192.168.0.1:8091 \ 
--cluster-username=Administrator \
--cluster-password=password \ 
--cluster-port=8080 \
--services=data,index,query \
--cluster-ramsize=300 
--cluster-index-ramsize=256 </codeblock>
    
    </section>
 
  </refbody>
</reference>
