<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_xd5_mm5_ls">
  <title><cmdname>collect-logs-start</cmdname></title>
  <shortdesc>Starts the cluster-wide log collection.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <p>The basic syntax is:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli collect-logs-start -c [host]:8091 -u [admin] -p [password]
        { --nodes=node1,node2,... | --all-nodes }
        [--upload --upload-host=host --customer=name [--ticket=ticketNumber ] ]</codeblock>
    
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>This command initiates a log collection process. You must specify whether to collect logs
        from all nodes or only from the specified nodes. </p>
      <p>You can optionally request that the logs be uploaded to Couchbase Server, in which case you must
        include the name of your organization and (optionally) a support ticket number. </p>
      
    </section>
    
    
    <section><title>Options</title>
      <p>The following are the command options:</p>  
      <table><title>collect-logs-start options</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1.17*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Option</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--customer=name</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Name of the customer sending the logs. This name is mandatory when the option
                  <codeph>--upload</codeph> is specified.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--nodes=HOST[:PORT],HOST[:PORT]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Specifies the subset of nodes from which the logs are collected.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--ticket=ticketNumber</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Number of the support ticket (optional)</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--upload </codeph></entry>
              <entry>Collects logs to a specified host.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--upload-host=host</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The host to which the logs are uploaded. This name is mandatory when the option
                  <codeph>--upload</codeph> is specified. </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Examples</title>
      <p>To upload all logs from the customer ABC to a specified server and connect it with the
        support ticket AB12345. The upload host is a remote internet server such as AWS S3.</p>
      
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli collect-logs-start -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password \
--all-nodes --upload-host=192.200.0.1:8091 --customer=ABC --ticket=AB12345</codeblock></section>
  
  </refbody>
</reference>
