<?xml version="1.0" standalone="no"?><!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "../../../../dtd/ditabase.dtd"><dita>
  <topic id="couchbaseclisettingxdcr1.idm86798688" outputclass="db.article" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title outputclass="db.title">setting-xdcr</title>
    
    <shortdesc>Modifies cross data center replication (XDCR) settings</shortdesc><body outputclass="db.article"><section><title outputclass="db.title">SYNTAX</title>
      
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"><i outputclass="db.emphasis">couchbase-cli setting-xdcr</i> [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--username &lt;user&gt;]
          [--password &lt;password&gt;] [--checkpoint-interval &lt;seconds&gt;]
          [--worker-batch-size &lt;num&gt;] [--doc-batch-size &lt;kilobytes&gt;]
          [--failure-restart-interval &lt;seconds&gt;] [--source-nozzle-per-node &lt;num&gt;]
          [--target-nozzle-per-node &lt;num&gt;] [--bandwidth-usage-limit &lt;num&gt;]
          [--enable-compression &lt;num&gt;] [--stats-interval &lt;milliseconds&gt;]
          [--optimistic-replication-threshold &lt;bytes&gt;] [--log-level &lt;level&gt;]</codeblock></section><section><title outputclass="db.title">DESCRIPTION</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">This command sets global default settings for all XDCR replications. If you only
want to change the settings for a single XDCR replication see the
<cite outputclass="db.citerefentry">
<ph outputclass="db.refentrytitle">couchbase-cli-xdcr-replicate</ph><ph outputclass="db.manvolnum">1</ph>
</cite> command.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">OPTIONS</title>
      
      
      <dl outputclass="db.variablelist">
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-c
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the hostname of a node in the cluster. See the HOST FORMATS
        section for more information on specifying a hostname.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-u
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--user &lt;username&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the username of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-p
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error. If this argument is specified, but no password is
        given then the command will prompt the user for a password through
        non-echoed stdin. You may also specify your password by using the
        environment variable CB_REST_PASSWORD.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--checkpoint-interval &lt;seconds&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The interval between checkpoints in seconds. The value of this option must
        be between 60 and 14,400.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--worker-batch-size &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The worker batch size. The value of this option must be between 500 and
        10,000.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--doc-batch-size &lt;kilobytes&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The document batch size in Kilobytes. The value of this option must be
        between 10 and 100,000.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--failure-restart-interval &lt;seconds&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Interval for restarting failed XDCR connections in seconds. The value of
        this option must be between 1 and 300.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--optimistic-replication-threshold &lt;bytes&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Document body size threshold in bytes used to trigger optimistic
        replication.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--source-nozzle-per-node &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The number of source nozzles to each node in the target cluster. The
        value of this option must be between 1 and 10.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--target-nozzle-per-node &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The number of outgoing nozzles to each node in the target cluster. The
        value of this option must be between 1 and 10.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--bandwidth-usage-limit &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The default bandwidth limit for XDCR replications in Megabytes per second.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--enable-compression &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies whether or not XDCR compression is enabled. Set this option to
        "1" to enable compression or "0" to disable compression. This feature is
        only available in Couchbase Enterprise Edition and can only be used where
        the target cluster supports compression.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--log-level &lt;level&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The XDCR log level.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--stats-interval &lt;milliseconds&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The interval for statistics updates in milliseconds.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">HOST FORMATS</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">When specifying a host for the couchbase-cli command the following formats are expected:</p>
        <ul outputclass="db.itemizedlist">
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">couchbase://&lt;addr&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">http://&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
        </ul>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">It is recommended to use the couchbase://&lt;addr&gt; format for standard
installations. The other two formats allow an option to take a port number which
is needed for non-default installations where the admin port has been set up on
a port other that 8091.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">EXAMPLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">If we want to change the checkpoint interval to 500 seconds, the worker batch to
1000 documents, the document batch size to 10240KB, the failure restart interval
to 60 seconds. the optimistic replication threshold to 102400 bytes, the source
nozzles to 8, the target nozzles to 8, the log level to info, and the stats
interval to 100 milliseconds run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli xdcr-setup -c 192.168.1.5 -u Administrator \
 -p password --checkpoint-interval 500 --worker-batch-size 1000 \
 --doc-batch-size 10240 --failure-restart-interval 60 \
 --optimistic-replication-threshold 102400 --source-nozzle-per-node 8 \
 --target-nozzle-per-node 8 --log-level info --stats-interval 100</pre>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line. It also allows the user to ensure that their
        password are not cached in their command line history.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line.</p>
      </section></body>
    <related-links><link href="couchbase-cli-xdcr-replicate.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-xdcr-setup.dita" /></related-links></topic>
</dita>