<?xml version="1.0" standalone="no"?><!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "../../../../dtd/ditabase.dtd"><dita>
  <topic id="couchbaseclisettingcluster1.idm64789232" outputclass="db.article" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title outputclass="db.title">setting-cluster</title>
    
    <shortdesc>Modifies cluster settings</shortdesc><body outputclass="db.article"><section><title outputclass="db.title">SYNTAX</title>
      
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"><i outputclass="db.emphasis">couchbase-cli setting-cluster</i> [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--cluster-username &lt;username&gt;]
          [--cluster-password &lt;password&gt;] [--cluster-port &lt;port&gt;]
      [--cluster-ramsize &lt;megabytes&gt;] [--cluster-name &lt;name&gt;]
      [--cluster-index-ramsize &lt;megabytes&gt;] [--cluster-fts-ramsize &lt;megabytes&gt;]</codeblock></section><section><title outputclass="db.title">DESCRIPTION</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">This command is used to modify cluster level settings. It allows users to change
the Couchbase root username and password, change the port that the cluster
manager listens on, and modify the data, index, and full-text service memory
quotas.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">OPTIONS</title>
      
      
      <dl outputclass="db.variablelist">
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-c
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the hostname of a node in the cluster. See the HOST FORMATS
        section for more information on specifying a hostname.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-u
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--user &lt;username&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the username of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-p
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error. If this argument is specified, but no password is
        given then the command will prompt the user for a password through
        non-echoed stdin. You may also specify your password by using the
        environment variable CB_REST_PASSWORD.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster-username
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the new username for the Couchbase administrator user.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster-password
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the new password for the Couchbase administrator user.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster-ramsize
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the data services memory quota. This quota will be assigned to all
        future nodes added to the cluster with the data service.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster-fts-ramsize
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Sets the full-text service memory quota. This parameter is required if the
        full-text service is specified in the --services option. This quota will be
        assigned to all future nodes added to the cluster with the full-text
        service.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster-index-ramsize
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Sets the index service memory quota. This parameter is required if the index
        service is specified in the --services option. This quota will be assigned
        to all future nodes added to the cluster with the index service.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster-name
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Sets the name for this cluster. Naming clusters is useful when you have
        multiple Couchbase clusters in your deployment.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster-port
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the port for the Couchbase Administration Console. Defaults to
        port 8091.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">HOST FORMATS</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">When specifying a host for the couchbase-cli command the following formats are expected:</p>
        <ul outputclass="db.itemizedlist">
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">couchbase://&lt;addr&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">http://&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
        </ul>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">It is recommended to use the couchbase://&lt;addr&gt; format for standard
installations. The other two formats allow an option to take a port number which
is needed for non-default installations where the admin port has been set up on
a port other that 8091.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">EXAMPLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">To change the username and password of the Couchbase administrator user run the
following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli setting-cluster -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username cur_user \
 --password cur_password --cluster-username new_username \
 --cluster-password new_password</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To change the port number that the cluster manager listens on and the cluster
name to "new_name" run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli setting-cluster -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
 --password password --cluster-port 5000 --cluster-name new_name</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To change the memory quota of the data server to 2048 and the memory quota of
the index service to 4096 run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli setting-cluster -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
 --password password --cluster-ramsize 2048 --cluster-index-ramsize 4096</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">All of the parameters in this command can be specified at the same time. To
change the username and password of the Couchbase administrator user, change the
port number to 5000, change the cluster name to "new_name", change the memory
quota of the data service to 2048 and change the memory quota of the index
service to 4096 run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli setting-cluster -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username cur_user \
 --password cur_password --cluster-username new_username \
 --cluster-password new_password --cluster-port 5000 \
 --cluster-name new_name --cluster-ramsize 2048 --cluster-index-ramsize 4096</pre>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line. It also allows the user to ensure that their
        password are not cached in their command line history.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line.</p>
      </section></body>
    <related-links><link href="couchbase-cli-cluster-init.dita" /></related-links></topic>
</dita>