<?xml version="1.0" standalone="no"?><!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "../../../../dtd/ditabase.dtd"><dita>
  <topic id="couchbaseclibucketedit1.idm70215520" outputclass="db.article" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title outputclass="db.title">bucket-edit</title>
    
    <shortdesc>Edit a bucket</shortdesc><body outputclass="db.article"><section><title outputclass="db.title">SYNTAX</title>
      
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"><i outputclass="db.emphasis">couchbase-cli bucket-edit</i> [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--username &lt;user&gt;]
          [--password &lt;password&gt;] [--bucket &lt;name&gt;] [--bucket-ramsize &lt;size&gt;]
          [--bucket-replica &lt;num&gt;] [--bucket-priority &lt;priority&gt;]
          [--bucket-eviction-policy &lt;policy&gt;] [--enable-flush &lt;num&gt;]</codeblock></section><section><title outputclass="db.title">DESCRIPTION</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">Modifies the settings of the bucket specified. Note that some settings can be
applied immediately, while other settings either require a rebalance, or require
the bucket to be restarted; resulting in potential application downtime.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">OPTIONS</title>
      
      
      <dl outputclass="db.variablelist">
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-c
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the hostname of a node in the cluster. See the HOST FORMATS
        section for more information on specifying a hostname.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-u
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--user &lt;username&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the username of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-p
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error. If this argument is specified, but no password is
        given then the command will prompt the user for a password through
        non-echoed stdin. You may also specify your password by using the
        environment variable CB_REST_PASSWORD.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--bucket &lt;name&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The name of the bucket to edit.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--bucket-ramsize &lt;size&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The amount of memory to allocate to the cache for this bucket, in Megabytes.
        The memory quota of this bucket must fit into the overall cluster memory
        quota. The minimum cache size is 100MB.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--bucket-replica &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The number of servers to which data is replicated. Replicas provide
        protection against data loss by keeping copies of a bucket’s data on
        multiple servers. By default, the number of replicas is one, even if there is
        only a single server in the cluster. The minimum number of replicas is zero,
        and the maximum three. This option is valid for Couchbase and Ephemeral
        buckets only.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--bucket-port &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Sets the port on which the bucket listens. This parameter is deprecated, and
        therefore not recommended for use.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--bucket-priority &lt;priority&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the priority of this bucket’s background tasks. This option is
        valid for Couchbase and Ephemeral buckets only. For Couchbase buckets,
        background task-types include disk I/O, DCP stream-processing, and
        item-paging. For Ephemeral buckets, background task-types are the same as
        for Couchbase buckets, with the exception of disk I/O, which does not apply
        to Ephemeral buckets. The value of this option may be "high" or "low". The
        default is "low". Specifying "high" may result in faster processing; but
        only when more than one bucket is defined for the cluster, and when
        different priority settings have been established among the buckets. When
        Couchbase and Ephemeral buckets have different priority settings, this
        affects the prioritization only of task-types other than disk I/O.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--bucket-eviction-policy &lt;policy&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The memory-cache eviction policy for this bucket. This option is valid for
        Couchbase and Ephemeral buckets only.
</p>
<pre outputclass="db.literallayout">Couchbase buckets support either "valueOnly" or "fullEviction". Specifying
the "valueOnly" policy means that each key stored in this bucket must be
kept in memory. This is the default policy: using this policy improves
performance of key-value operations, but limits the maximum size of the
bucket. Specifying the "fullEviction" policy means that performance is
impacted for key-value operations, but the maximum size of the bucket is
unbounded.</pre>
<pre outputclass="db.literallayout">Ephemeral buckets support either "noEviction" or "nruEviction". Specifying
"noEviction" means that the bucket will not evict items from the cache if
the cache is full: this type of eviction policy should be used for in-memory
database use-cases. Specifying "nruEviction" means that items not recently
used will be evicted from memory, when all memory in the bucket is used:
this type of eviction policy should be used for caching use-cases.</pre>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--enable-flush &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies whether or not the flush operation is allowed for this bucket. To
        enable flushing, set this option to "1". To disable flushing, set this
        option to "0". By default, flushing is disabled.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--enable-index-replica &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Enables view index replication for the current bucket. This option is valid
        for Couchbase buckets only. To enable, set the value of this option to "1".
        To disable, set the value of this option to "0". By default, view index
        replication is disabled. There may be at most one replica view index.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">HOST FORMATS</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">When specifying a host for the couchbase-cli command the following formats are expected:</p>
        <ul outputclass="db.itemizedlist">
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">couchbase://&lt;addr&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">http://&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
        </ul>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">It is recommended to use the couchbase://&lt;addr&gt; format for standard
installations. The other two formats allow an option to take a port number which
is needed for non-default installations where the admin port has been set up on
a port other that 8091.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">EXAMPLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">To change the memory quota of the travel-data bucket, run the following
command:</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli bucket-edit -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
 --password password --bucket travel-data --bucket-ramsize 1024</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To change the number of replicas for the travel-data bucket to "2", run the
following command. (Note that this requires a subsequent rebalance, by means of
<cite outputclass="db.citerefentry">
<ph outputclass="db.refentrytitle">couchbase-cli-rebalance</ph><ph outputclass="db.manvolnum">1</ph>
</cite>, to ensure that the replicas are created.)</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli bucket-edit -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
 --password password --bucket travel-data --bucket-ramsize 1024 \
 --bucket-replicas 2</pre>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line. It also allows the user to ensure that their
        password are not cached in their command line history.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line.</p>
      </section></body>
    <related-links><link href="couchbase-cli-bucket-compact.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-bucket-create.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-bucket-delete.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-bucket-flush.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-bucket-list.dita" /></related-links></topic>
</dita>