<?xml version="1.0" standalone="no"?><!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "../../../../dtd/ditabase.dtd"><dita>
  <topic id="couchbaseclimasterpassword1.idm204635625168" outputclass="db.article" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title outputclass="db.title">master-password</title>
    
    <shortdesc>Manages and sends the Couchbase master password</shortdesc><body outputclass="db.article"><section><title outputclass="db.title">SYNTAX</title>
      
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"><i outputclass="db.emphasis">couchbase-cli master-password</i> [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--username &lt;user&gt;] [--password &lt;password&gt;] [--send-password &lt;password&gt;] [--new-password &lt;password&gt;] [--rotate-password]</codeblock></section><section><title outputclass="db.title">DESCRIPTION</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">Couchbase Server Enterprise Edition has a "Secret Management" feature which
allows users to securely encrypt passwords and other sensitive configuration
information that is stored on disk. These secrets must be stored in a secure way
and access must be controlled to reduce the risk of accidental exposure. By
using Secret Management in Couchbase Server, secrets are written to disk in
encrypted format. To decrypt these secrets Couchbase requires entering a
"master password" which is supplied by the user during server startup. This
master password can be passed to the server using the couchbase-cli
master-password command.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">By default the Secret Management feature is disabled. To enable the feature you
must first set the master password. Once a master password is set the user is
required to enter it when the server starts up. This can be done by either
setting the environment variable CB_MASTER_PASSWORD=&lt;password&gt; during server
startup. Alternatively, you can set the environment variable
CB_WAIT_FOR_MASTER_PASSWORD=true and then enter the master password using the
couchbase-cli master-password command. See the EXAMPLES section for more details
about how to use the Secret Management feature.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">Note: The master password subcommand must be run on the same node as the
server it is targeting because it requires access to files in the installation
in order to</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">OPTIONS</title>
      
      
      <dl outputclass="db.variablelist">
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-c
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specfies the hostname of a node in the cluster. See the HOST FORMATS
        section for more information on specifying a hostname.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-u
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--user &lt;username&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the username of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permision to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-p
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permision to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error. If this argument is specified, but no password is
        given then the command will prompt the user for a password through
        non-echoed stdin. You may also specify your password by using the
        environment variable CB_REST_PASSWORD.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--rotate-data-key
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Secrets are encrypted using a data key file which is a unique key that is
        stored on disk for each server. To open this file the master password is
        used to generate a key which decrypts the contents of the data key file.
        The contents of the decrypted data key file can then be used to decrypt
        secrets. Some users may want to generate a new data key file periodically
        to increase security. This option is used to generate a new data key file.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--new-password
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Sets a new master password for the server specified. The user may specify
        this password on the command line or through non-echoed stdin. To specify
        the password through non-echoed stdin do not provide a value for this
        option. The user will then be prompted to enter the password.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--send-password
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Sends the master password to server which is waiting to start up.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">HOST FORMATS</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">When specifying a host for the couchbase-cli command the following formats are expected:</p>
        <ul outputclass="db.itemizedlist">
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">couchbase://&lt;addr&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">http://&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
        </ul>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">It is recommended to use the couchbase://&lt;addr&gt; format for standard
installations. The other two formats allow an option to take a port number which
is needed for non-default installations where the admin port has been set up on
a port other that 8091.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">EXAMPLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">To use the Secret Management feature the first thing you need to do is set a
password on each node of the cluster. To do this install and start Couchbase,
but don’t go through the setup process or initialize the cluster. Once Couchbase
has started run the following command to set the master password for your
server. Note that you must be running the command from the same machine as the
server you are connecting to.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli master-password -c 127.0.0.1 -u Administrator -p password \
  --new-password password</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">Now that the master password has been set you need to set the server environment
variable CB_WAIT_FOR_MASTER_PASSWORD=true. You can do this by running the
command below or by setting the variable in your .bashrc file.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ export CB_WAIT_FOR_MASTER_PASSWORD=true</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">This environment variable will cause Couchbase to wait for the master password
before starting up. Now that it is set you need to restart your cluster. Upon
restarting the cluster you will notice that the server doesn’t fully start. This
is because it is waiting for you to enter the master password. You can do this
by running the command below. This command must also be run on the same machine
that the server you ar starting is on.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli master-password -c 127.0.0.1 -u Administrator -p password \
  --send-password password</pre>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line. It also allows the user to ensure that their
        password are not cached in their command line history.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line.</p>
      </section></body>
    <related-links><link href="couchbase-cli-cluster-init.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-server-add.dita" /></related-links></topic>
</dita>