<?xml version="1.0" standalone="no"?><!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "../../../../dtd/ditabase.dtd"><dita>
  <topic id="couchbasecliusermanage1.idm31414544" outputclass="db.article" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title outputclass="db.title">user-manage</title>
    
    <shortdesc>Manage RBAC users</shortdesc><body outputclass="db.article"><section><title outputclass="db.title">SYNTAX</title>
      
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"><i outputclass="db.emphasis">couchbase-cli user-manage</i> [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--username &lt;user&gt;]
          [--password &lt;password&gt;] [--delete] [--list] [--my-roles] [--set]
          [--rbac-username &lt;username&gt;] [--rbac-password &lt;password&gt;]
          [--rbac-name &lt;name&gt;] [--roles &lt;roles_list&gt;] [--auth_domain &lt;domain&gt;]</codeblock></section><section><title outputclass="db.title">DESCRIPTION</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">This command allows administrators to assign and manage roles to different users
in their organization. Users can either be managed locally by Couchbase or
externally through the use of an external domain.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">OPTIONS</title>
      
      
      <dl outputclass="db.variablelist">
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-c
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the hostname of a node in the cluster. See the HOST FORMATS
        section for more information on specifying a hostname.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-u
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--user &lt;username&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the username of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-p
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error. If this argument is specified, but no password is
        given then the command will prompt the user for a password through
        non-echoed stdin. You may also specify your password by using the
        environment variable CB_REST_PASSWORD.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--delete
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Deletes an RBAC user profile from the cluster. You must have full
        administrator privileges in order to delete a user profile.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--list
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Lists all RBAC user profiles in the cluster and show their roles. You must
        have full administrator privileges in order to list all user profiles.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--my-roles
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Shows the current users RBAC user profile.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--set
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Creates or updates an RBAC user profile. You must have full administrator
        privileges in order to create or update a user profile.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--rbac-username &lt;username&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the username of the RBAC user to modify. This option is used when
        deleting, creating, or updating an RBAC user profile.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--rbac-password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the password to be used for an RBAC user profile. This option is
        used only when creating or updating a <i outputclass="db.emphasis">local</i> RBAC user profile. Couchbase
        does not store password for <i outputclass="db.emphasis">external</i> RBAC roles.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--rbac-name &lt;name&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the name to be used for an RBAC user profile. This option is used
        when creating or updating an RBAC user profile and it is recommanded that
        this option be set to the users full name.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--roles &lt;roles_list&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the roles to be given to an RBAC user profile. This option is used
        when creating or updating an RBAC user profile and it is specified as a
        comma separated list of roles. See the ROLES section for more details on the
        available roles in Couchbase.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--auth-domain &lt;domain&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the auth_domain to used for an RBAC user profile. This option is
        used when deleting, creating or updating an RBAC user profile and it if may
        be set to either <i outputclass="db.emphasis">local</i> or <i outputclass="db.emphasis">external</i>. Loacl users are users that are
        managed directly by the Couchbase cluster. External users are users
        managed by an external source suchas LDAP.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">HOST FORMATS</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">When specifying a host for the couchbase-cli command the following formats are expected:</p>
        <ul outputclass="db.itemizedlist">
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">couchbase://&lt;addr&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">http://&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
        </ul>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">It is recommended to use the couchbase://&lt;addr&gt; format for standard
installations. The other two formats allow an option to take a port number which
is needed for non-default installations where the admin port has been set up on
a port other that 8091.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">ROLES</p>
        <lq outputclass="db.blockquote">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">Cluster-Wide Roles:</p>
<dl outputclass="db.variablelist"><dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry"><dt outputclass="db.term">
admin
</dt><dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Give the user permissions to manage all Couchbase configuration settings,
        and read and write all data in the cluster. This user can make changes to
        anything in the cluster.
</p>
</dd></dlentry><dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry"><dt outputclass="db.term">
bucket_admin[…]
</dt><dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Gives the user permissions to manage bucket settings. This role can be
        assigned globally to all buckets or to a particular bucket. For XDCR
        operations, the user can start/stop replication for the buckets they
        administer, but they cannot set up the XDCR cluster references. To give
        a user the ability to manage all bucket settings set their role to
        bucket_admin[*]. To give the user permission to manage bucket settings on a
        single bucket named <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> then specify the role as
        bucket_admin[default]. If the user needs to be manage multiple buckets, for
        example <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> and <i outputclass="db.emphasis">app</i>, then set the role as bucket[default,app].
</p>
</dd></dlentry><dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry"><dt outputclass="db.term">
cluster_admin
</dt><dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Gives the user permissions to read, write and manage all cluster-level
        settings except security.
</p>
</dd></dlentry><dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry"><dt outputclass="db.term">
replication_admin
</dt><dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Allows the user to configure XDCR topology and manage XDCR replications.
</p>
</dd></dlentry><dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry"><dt outputclass="db.term">
ro_admin
</dt><dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Gives the user read-only access and cannot make any changes to the system.
        This user has read-only access to cluster overview, design documents
        (without the ability to create or query views), bucket summaries (without
        the ability to create or view documents), XDCR cluster references, XDCR
        replications, and cluster settings.
</p>
</dd></dlentry><dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry"><dt outputclass="db.term">
view_admin[…]
</dt><dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Gives the user privileges to define views and then run these views on data
        to ensure that views are defined properly. This applies both to the
        map-reduce and spatial views. To give a user the ability to manage views on
        all buckets set their role to views_admin[*]. To give the user permission to
        manage views on a single bucket named <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> then specify the role as
        views_admin[default]. If the user needs to be manage views for multiple
        buckets, for example <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> and <i outputclass="db.emphasis">app</i>, then set the role as
        views_admin[default,app].
</p>
</dd></dlentry></dl>
<p outputclass="db.simpara">Data Service Roles:</p>
<dl outputclass="db.variablelist"><dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry"><dt outputclass="db.term">
data_reader[…]
</dt><dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Gives the user permission to read data through Couchbases key-value APIs.
        To give a user read-only access for all buckets set their role to
        data_reader[*]. To give the user read-only access to data on a single
        bucket named <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> then specify their role as data_reader[default].
        If the user needs read-only access to data for multiple buckets, for example
        <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> and <i outputclass="db.emphasis">app</i>, then set their role as data_reader[default,app].
</p>
</dd></dlentry><dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry"><dt outputclass="db.term">
data_writer[…]
</dt><dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Gives the user permission to read and write data through Couchbases
        key-value APIs. The user cannot however modify the settings of a bucket.
        To give a user read-write access for all buckets set their role to
        data_writer[*]. To give the user read-write access to data on a
        single bucket named <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> then specify their role as
        data_writer[default]. If the user needs read-write access to data
        for multiple buckets, for example <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> and <i outputclass="db.emphasis">app</i>, then set their role
        as data_writer[default,app].
</p>
</dd></dlentry><dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry"><dt outputclass="db.term">
data_dcp_reader[…]
</dt><dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Gives the user permission to create Couchbase DCP connections. To give a
        user the ability to create DCP connections for all buckets set their role to
        data_dcp_reader[*]. To give the user the ability to create DCP connections
        on a single bucket named <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> then specify their role as
        data_dcp_reader[default]. If the user needs to be able to create DCP
        connections for multiple buckets, for example <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> and <i outputclass="db.emphasis">app</i>, then set
        their role as data_dcp_reader[default,app].
</p>
</dd></dlentry><dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry"><dt outputclass="db.term">
data_backup[…]
</dt><dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Gives the user permission to backup and restore data in Couchbase. To give a
        user the ability to backup and restore data for all buckets set their role
        to data_backup[*]. To give the user the ability to backup and restore data
        on a single bucket named <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> then specify their role as
        data_backup[default]. If the user needs to be able to backup and restore
        data for multiple buckets, for example <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> and <i outputclass="db.emphasis">app</i>, then set their
        role as data_backup[default,app].
</p>
</dd></dlentry><dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry"><dt outputclass="db.term">
data_monitoring[…]
</dt><dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Gives the user permission to read monitoring data related to the data
        service in Couchbase. To give a user the ability to monitor data for all
        buckets set their role to data_monitoring[*]. To give the user the ability
        to monitor data on a single bucket named <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> then specify their role
        as data_monitoring[default]. If the user needs to be able to monitor data
        for multiple buckets, for example <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> and <i outputclass="db.emphasis">app</i>, then set their role
        as data_monitoring[default,app].
</p>
</dd></dlentry></dl>
<p outputclass="db.simpara">Full Text Service Roles:</p>
<dl outputclass="db.variablelist"><dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry"><dt outputclass="db.term">
fts_admin[…]
</dt><dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Gives the user full administrator access for the Full Text Indexing service
        for the specified buckets. To give a user full administrator access for FTS
        on all buckets set their role to fts_admin[*]. To give the user full
        administrator access for FTS on a single bucket named <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> then specify
        their role as fts_admin[default]. If the user needs full administrator
        access for FTS for multiple buckets, for example <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> and <i outputclass="db.emphasis">app</i>, then
        set their role as fts_admin[default,app].
</p>
</dd></dlentry><dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry"><dt outputclass="db.term">
fts_searcher[…]
</dt><dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Allows the user to query full text indexes for the specified buckets. To
        give a user the ability to query full text indexes on all buckets set their
        role to fts_searcher[*]. To give the ability to query FTS indexes on a
        single bucket named <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> then specify their role as
        fts_searcher[default]. If the user needs to query FTS indexes on multiple
        multiple buckets, for example <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> and <i outputclass="db.emphasis">app</i>, then set their role as
        fts_searcher[default,app].
</p>
</dd></dlentry></dl>
<p outputclass="db.simpara">Query Service Roles:</p>
<dl outputclass="db.variablelist"><dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry"><dt outputclass="db.term">
manage_index[…]
</dt><dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Allows the user to create and delete indexes on the specified buckets. To
        give a user the ability to create and delete indexes on all buckets set
        their role to manage_index[*]. To give the user permission to create and
        delete indexes on a single bucket named <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> then specify their role
        as manage_index[default]. If the user needs to be create and delete indexes
        for multiple buckets, for example <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> and <i outputclass="db.emphasis">app</i>, then set their role
        as manage_index[default,app].
</p>
</dd></dlentry><dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry"><dt outputclass="db.term">
query_delete[…]
</dt><dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Allows the user to execute DELETE query statements on the specified buckets.
        To give a user the ability execute DELETE statements on all buckets set
        their role to query_delete[*]. To give the user permission to execute
        DELETE statements on a single bucket named <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> then specify their role
        as query_delete[default]. If the user needs to be execute DELETE statements
        for multiple buckets, for example <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> and <i outputclass="db.emphasis">app</i>, then set their role
        as query_delete[default,app].
</p>
</dd></dlentry><dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry"><dt outputclass="db.term">
query_insert[…]
</dt><dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Allows the user to execute INSERT query statements on the specified buckets.
        To give a user the ability execute INSERT statements on all buckets set
        their role to query_insert[*]. To give the user permission to execute
        INSERT statements on a single bucket named <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> then specify their role
        as query_insert[default]. If the user needs to be execute INSERT statements
        for multiple buckets, for example <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> and <i outputclass="db.emphasis">app</i>, then set their role
        as query_insert[default,app].
</p>
</dd></dlentry><dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry"><dt outputclass="db.term">
query_select[…]
</dt><dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Allows the user to execute SELECT query statements on the specified buckets.
        To give a user the ability execute SELECT statements on all buckets set
        their role to query_select[*]. To give the user permission to execute
        SELECT statements on a single bucket named <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> then specify their role
        as query_select[default]. If the user needs to be execute SELECT statements
        for multiple buckets, for example <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> and <i outputclass="db.emphasis">app</i>, then set their role
        as query_select[default,app].
</p>
</dd></dlentry><dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry"><dt outputclass="db.term">
query_update[…]
</dt><dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Allows the user to execute UPDATE query statements on the specified buckets.
        To give a user the ability execute UPDATE statements on all buckets set
        their role to query_update[*]. To give the user permission to execute
        UPDATE statements on a single bucket named <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> then specify their role
        as query_update[default]. If the user needs to be execute UPDATE statements
        for multiple buckets, for example <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> and <i outputclass="db.emphasis">app</i>, then set their role
        as query_update[default,app].
</p>
</dd></dlentry><dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry"><dt outputclass="db.term">
system_catalog[…]
</dt><dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Allows the users to run queries against the system catalog on the specified
        buckets. To give a user the ability to run queries against the system
        catalog on all buckets set their role to system_catalog[*]. To give the user
        permission to run queries against the system catalog on a single bucket
        named <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> then specify their role as system_catalog[default]. If the
        user needs to be run queries against the system catalog for multiple
        buckets, for example <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> and <i outputclass="db.emphasis">app</i>, then set their role as
        system_catalog[default,app].
</p>
</dd></dlentry></dl>
</lq>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">EXAMPLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">To create an local RBAC user profile for a user named "John Doe" with username
jdoe and password cbpass with roles to manage the <i outputclass="db.emphasis">default</i> bucket and all
XDCR replication run the following command</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli user-manage -c 127.0.0.1:8091 -u Administrator \
 -p password --set --rbac-username jdoe --rbac-password cbpass \
 --rbac-name "John Doe" --roles bucket_admin[default],replication_admin \
 --auth-domain local</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">If you have external user source setup in your cluster and you want to add a
user "John Doe" with username jdoe who should have the ability to manage only
views for all bucket run the following command</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli user-manage -c 127.0.0.1:8091 -u Administrator \
 -p password --set --rbac-username jdoe --rbac-name "John Doe" \
 --roles view_admin[*] --auth-domain external</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To list the current RBAC user profiles run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli user-manage -c 127.0.0.1:8091 -u Administrator \
 -p password --list</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To delete an external user named jdoe run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli user-manage -c 127.0.0.1:8091 -u Administrator \
 -p password --delete --rbac-username jdoe --auth-domain external</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To delete a local user named jdoe run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli user-manage -c 127.0.0.1:8091 -u Administrator \
 -p password --delete --rbac-username jdoe --auth-domain local</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To see the user profile for a user with the username jdoe and password cbpass
run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli user-manage -c 127.0.0.1:8091 -u jdoe -p cbpass \
 --my-roles</pre>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line. It also allows the user to ensure that their
        password are not cached in their command line history.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line.</p>
      </section></body>
    <related-links><link href="couchbase-cli-setting-ldap.dita" /></related-links></topic>
</dita>
