<?xml version="1.0" standalone="no"?><!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "../../../../dtd/ditabase.dtd"><dita>
  <topic id="couchbaseclisettingaudit1.idm96983984" outputclass="db.article" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title outputclass="db.title">setting-audit</title>
    
    <shortdesc>Modifies audit log settings</shortdesc><body outputclass="db.article"><section><title outputclass="db.title">SYNTAX</title>
      
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"><i outputclass="db.emphasis">couchbase-cli setting-audit</i> [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--username &lt;user&gt;]
          [--password &lt;password&gt;] [--audit-enabled &lt;num&gt;] [--audit-log-path &lt;path&gt;]
          [--audit-log-rotate-interval &lt;seconds&gt;]</codeblock></section><section><title outputclass="db.title">DESCRIPTION</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">Auditing is used to observe the action of users in the cluster. It is usually
turned on for security purposes to ensure that those without permission to
access information do not access it. By default auditing is disabled in
Couchbase. The setting-audit command can be used to enable auditing, set the
auditing log path, and change the auditing log rotation interval.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">OPTIONS</title>
      
      
      <dl outputclass="db.variablelist">
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-c
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the hostname of a node in the cluster. See the HOST FORMATS
        section for more information on specifying a hostname.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-u
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--user &lt;username&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the username of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-p
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error. If this argument is specified, but no password is
        given then the command will prompt the user for a password through
        non-echoed stdin. You may also specify your password by using the
        environment variable CB_REST_PASSWORD.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--audit-enabled &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies whether or not auditing is enabled. To enabled auditing set this
        option to "1". To disable auditing set this option to "0".
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--audit-log-path &lt;path&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies The auditing log path. This should be a path should be a path to a
        folder where the auditing log is kept. The folder must exist on all servers
        in the cluster.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--audit-log-rotate-interval &lt;seconds&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the audit log rotate interval. This is the interval in which the
        current audit log will be replaced with a new empty audit log file. The log
        file is rotated to ensure that the audit log does not consume too much disk
        space. The minimum audit log rotate interval is 15 minutes (900 seconds).
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--audit-log-rotate-size &lt;bytes&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the audit log rotate size. This is the size at which the current
        audit log will be replaced with a new empty audit log file. The log
        file is rotated to ensure that the audit log does not consume too much disk
        space. The minimum audit log rotate size is 0 bytes and maximum is
        524,288,000 (500MB). When it is set to 0 the log will not be rotated based
        on size.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">HOST FORMATS</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">When specifying a host for the couchbase-cli command the following formats are expected:</p>
        <ul outputclass="db.itemizedlist">
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">couchbase://&lt;addr&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">http://&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
        </ul>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">It is recommended to use the couchbase://&lt;addr&gt; format for standard
installations. The other two formats allow an option to take a port number which
is needed for non-default installations where the admin port has been set up on
a port other that 8091.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">EXAMPLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">To enable auditing on a cluster and set the audit log to the default logs folder
on a linux installation with a log rotate interval of 7 days run the command
below.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli setting-audit -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
 --password password --enabled 1 --audit-log-rotate-interval 604800 \
 --audit-log-path /opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/logs</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To enable auditing on a cluster and set the audit log to the default logs folder
on a linux installation with a log rotate size of 20MB run the command below.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli setting-audit -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
 --password password --enabled 1 --audit-log-rotate-size 20971520 \
 --audit-log-path /opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/logs</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To disable auditing run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli setting-audit -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
 --password password --enabled 1</pre>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line. It also allows the user to ensure that their
        password are not cached in their command line history.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line.</p>
      </section></body>
    <related-links><link href="couchbase-cli-admin-role-manage.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-ssl-manage.dita" /></related-links></topic>
</dita>