<?xml version="1.0" standalone="no"?><!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "../../../../dtd/ditabase.dtd"><dita>
  <topic id="couchbasecliresetadminpassword1.idm94372480" outputclass="db.article" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title outputclass="db.title">reset-admin-password</title>
    
    <shortdesc>Resets the Couchbase Server administrator password</shortdesc><body outputclass="db.article"><section><title outputclass="db.title">SYNTAX</title>
      
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"><i outputclass="db.emphasis">couchbase-cli reset-admin-password</i> [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--regenerate]
          [--new-password &lt;password&gt;]</codeblock></section><section><title outputclass="db.title">DESCRIPTION</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">This command is used to reset the built-in Couchbase Server Administrator password.
There is only one built-in Administrator account, which is managed separately
from the internal and external Administrator users.
External and Internal Administrator
accounts can be managed using the <cite outputclass="db.citerefentry">
<ph outputclass="db.refentrytitle">couchbase-cli-user-manage</ph><ph outputclass="db.manvolnum">1</ph>
</cite> command.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">The <codeph outputclass="db.literal">reset-admin-password</codeph> command must be run locally on a node that is part of the
cluster (i.e. must connect to the host the command is run on).
This is required as <codeph outputclass="db.literal">reset-admin-password</codeph>
relies on a local authentication token, which is used to authenticate with the
server and change the password. As a result, the command does not require
credentials to be passed.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">OPTIONS</title>
      
      
      <dl outputclass="db.variablelist">
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-c
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the hostname of a node in the cluster. See the HOST FORMATS
        section for more information on specifying a hostname.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--new-password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Sets the password for the Couchbase Server administrator user to the value
        specified by the argument. If no password is
        specified, the command prompts the user for the new
        password through non-echoed stdin.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--regenerate
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Sets the password for the Couchbase Server administrator user to a randomly
        generated value. The new password is printed to the command line after
        the password is changed.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">HOST FORMATS</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">When specifying a host for the couchbase-cli command the following formats are expected:</p>
        <ul outputclass="db.itemizedlist">
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">couchbase://&lt;addr&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">http://&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
        </ul>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">It is recommended to use the couchbase://&lt;addr&gt; format for standard
installations. The other two formats allow an option to take a port number which
is needed for non-default installations where the admin port has been set up on
a port other that 8091.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">EXAMPLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">To change the administrator password to <i outputclass="db.emphasis">new_pwd</i> run the following command:</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli reset-admin-password -c 192.168.1.5:8091 \
 --new-password new_pwd</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To change the administrator password to a randomly generated value, run the
following command. The new password will be printed to stdout if the
password is successfully changed:</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli reset-admin-password -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --regenerate
  jXjNW6LG</pre>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line. It also allows the user to ensure that their
        password are not cached in their command line history.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line.</p>
      </section></body>
    <related-links><link href="couchbase-cli-setting-ldap.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-user-manage.dita" /></related-links></topic>
</dita>