<?xml version="1.0" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "../../../../dtd/ditabase.dtd"><dita>
  <topic id="couchbasecliadminrolemanage1.idm89698528" outputclass="db.article" xml:lang="en-us">

    <title outputclass="db.title">admin-role-manage</title>
    
    <shortdesc>Manage user roles</shortdesc><body outputclass="db.article"><section><title outputclass="db.title">SYNTAX</title>
      
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"><i outputclass="db.emphasis">couchbase-cli admin-role-manage</i> [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--username &lt;user&gt;]
          [--password &lt;password&gt;] [--my-roles] [--get-roles]
          [--set-users &lt;user_list&gt;] [--set-names &lt;name_list&gt;] [--roles]
          [--delete-users &lt;user_list&gt;]</codeblock></section><section><title outputclass="db.title">DESCRIPTION</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">DEPRECATED: This command was in 5.0.0 deprecated and will be removed in future
releases. Please use the <cite outputclass="db.citerefentry">
<ph outputclass="db.refentrytitle">couchbase-cli-user-manage</ph><ph outputclass="db.manvolnum">1</ph>
</cite> subcommand which
provides similar functionality to this command.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">This command is used to manage LDAP user roles.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">OPTIONS</title>
      
      
      <dl outputclass="db.variablelist">
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-c
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the hostname of a node in the cluster. See the HOST FORMATS
        section for more information on specifying a hostname.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-u
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--user &lt;username&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the username of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-p
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error. If this argument is specified, but no password is
        given then the command will prompt the user for a password through
        non-echoed stdin. You may also specify your password by using the
        environment variable CB_REST_PASSWORD.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--my-roles
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Show the current users roles.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--get-roles
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Show all valid users and roles.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--set-users &lt;user_list&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        A comma-delimited list of user ids to set access-control roles for.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--set-names &lt;name_list&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        A optional quoted, comma-delimited list names, one for each specified user
        id.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--roles
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        A comma-delimited list of roles to set for users.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--delete-users &lt;user_list&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        A comma-delimited list of users to remove from access control.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">HOST FORMATS</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">When specifying a host for the couchbase-cli command the following formats are expected:</p>
        <ul outputclass="db.itemizedlist">
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">couchbase://&lt;addr&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">http://&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
        </ul>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">It is recommended to use the couchbase://&lt;addr&gt; format for standard
installations. The other two formats allow an option to take a port number which
is needed for non-default installations where the admin port has been set up on
a port other that 8091.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">EXAMPLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">To show the current users roles run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli admin-role-manage -c 192.168.1.5 -u Administrator \
 -p password --my-roles</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To see a list of all available roles in Couchbase Server run the following
command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli admin-role-manage -c 192.168.1.5 -u Administrator \
 -p password --get-roles</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To set roles for a new user "Alice Meyers" with username "alice" and the
cluster administrator and replication administrator roles run the following
command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli admin-role-manage -c 192.168.1.5 -u Administrator \
 -p password --set-users alice --set-names "Alice Meyers" \
 --roles cluster_admin,replication_admin</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">You can also specify multiple users at the same time when using the set users
flag. For example if you want to add Alice Meyers and Barry Dillon to the same
set of roles you could run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli admin-role-manage -c 192.168.1.5 -u Administrator \
 -p password --set-users alice,barry \
 --set-names "Alice Meyers,Barry Dillon" \
 --roles cluster_admin,replication_admin</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To delete the user alice you can run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli admin-role-manage -c 192.168.1.5 -u Administrator \
 -p password --delete-users alice</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">You also delete multiple users at the same time. For example if you want to
delete both alic and barry then you can do so by running the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli admin-role-manage -c 192.168.1.5 -u Administrator \
 -p password --delete-users alice,barry</pre>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line. It also allows the user to ensure that their
        password are not cached in their command line history.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line.</p>
      </section></body>
    <related-links><link href="couchbase-cli-setting-ldap.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-user-manage.dita" /></related-links></topic>
</dita>