<?xml version="1.0" standalone="no"?><!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "../../../../dtd/ditabase.dtd"><dita>
  <topic id="couchbaseclinodeinit1.idm298807992144" outputclass="db.article" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title outputclass="db.title">node-init</title>
    
    <shortdesc>Initializes a node</shortdesc><body outputclass="db.article"><section><title outputclass="db.title">SYNTAX</title>
      
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"><i outputclass="db.emphasis">couchbase-cli node-init</i> [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--username &lt;user&gt;] [--password &lt;password&gt;] [--node-init-data-path &lt;path&gt;] [--node-init-index-path &lt;path&gt;] [--node-init-hostname &lt;hostname&gt;]</codeblock></section><section><title outputclass="db.title">DESCRIPTION</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">This command initializes a Couchbase server. In particular this command allows
the user to set the servers data path, index path, and hostname. The data and
index paths must be set prior to initializing the cluster or adding this target
server to an existing cluster. The hostname however can be changed after the
server has become part of a cluster.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To get the best performance from Couchbase it is reocmmended that the data and
index paths be set to separate disks.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">OPTIONS</title>
      
      
      <dl outputclass="db.variablelist">
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-c
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specfies the hostname of a node in the cluster. See the HOST FORMATS
        section for more information on specifying a hostname.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-u
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--user &lt;username&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the username of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permision to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-p
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permision to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error. If this argument is specified, but no password is
        given then the command will prompt the user for a password through
        non-echoed stdin. You may also specify your password by using the
        environment variable CB_REST_PASSWORD.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--node-init-data-path
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The path to store data files create by the Couchbase data service. Note that
        this path is also where view indexes are written on this server. This flag
        can only be specified against a node that is not yet part of a cluster.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--node-init-index-path
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The path to store files create by the Couchbase index service. This flag can
        only be specified against a node that is not yet part of a cluster.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--node-init-hostname
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the hostname for this server. The hostname can be set before or
        after a node becomes part of a cluster.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">HOST FORMATS</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">When specifying a host for the couchbase-cli command the following formats are expected:</p>
        <ul outputclass="db.itemizedlist">
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">couchbase://&lt;addr&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">http://&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
        </ul>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">It is recommended to use the couchbase://&lt;addr&gt; format for standard
installations. The other two formats allow an option to take a port number which
is needed for non-default installations where the admin port has been set up on
a port other that 8091.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">EXAMPLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">To initialize a node and set the index path to /mnt1/indexes and the data path
to /mnt2/data run the following command. Note that this command must be run
before the node becomes part of a cluster.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli bucket-delete -c 192.168.1.5 \
 --node-init-data-path /mnt2/data --node-init-index-path /mnt1/indexes</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">In the command above we have not yet set the cluster username and password so
we can skip adding these to the command line. If we later initialize the cluster
and want to set the hostname for the cluster then we would run the command
below. Notice that this thime the cluster is initialized so we must include the
username and password.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli bucket-delete -c 192.168.1.5 -u Administrator -p password \
 --hostname cb1.mydomain.com</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">We could have alternatively set all three of these options below before we
initialized the cluster. This would have been done with the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli bucket-delete -c 192.168.1.5 --hostname cb1.mydomain.com \
 --node-init-data-path /mnt2/data --node-init-index-path /mnt1/indexes</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">Again note that we don’t need the username and password because in this example
the cluster has not yet been initialized.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line. It also allows the user to ensure that their
        password are not cached in their command line history.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line.</p>
      </section></body>
    <related-links><link href="couchbase-cli-cluster-init.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-server-add.dita" /></related-links></topic>
</dita>