<?xml version="1.0" standalone="no"?><!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "../../../../dtd/ditabase.dtd"><dita>
  <topic id="couchbaseclirecovery1.idm97852864" outputclass="db.article" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title outputclass="db.title">recovery</title>
    
    <shortdesc>Recovers a previously failed over node</shortdesc><body outputclass="db.article"><section><title outputclass="db.title">SYNTAX</title>
      
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"><i outputclass="db.emphasis">couchbase-cli recovery</i> [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--username &lt;username&gt;]
          [--password &lt;password&gt;] [--server-recovery &lt;servers&gt;]
          [--recovery-type &lt;type&gt;]</codeblock></section><section><title outputclass="db.title">DESCRIPTION</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">When a server is failed over and removed from the cluster it may only be able to
be added back to the cluster. And example of this is when a server loses power.
This server might get failed over and removed from the cluster, but once power
is restored to the server you may want to add it back to the cluster.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">Another use case is taking a server out of the cluster for maintenance. This
is done by gracefully failing over a server to ensure there is no data loss.
The administrator can then perform maintenance on the removed server and add it
back with the server-readd command.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">The recovery command also allows a server to have it’s data remvoed before being
added back to the cluster (full recovery) or having the server resume from where
it last left off (delta recovery). Delta recovery will always take the least
amount of time and is the recommended recovery mode.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">Note that after the recovery subcommand is run you must rebalance the
cluster. See the <cite outputclass="db.citerefentry">
<ph outputclass="db.refentrytitle">couchbase-rebalance</ph><ph outputclass="db.manvolnum">1</ph>
</cite> command for more information
on rebalancing a cluster.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">OPTIONS</title>
      
      
      <dl outputclass="db.variablelist">
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-c
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the hostname of a node in the cluster. See the HOST FORMATS
        section for more information on specifying a hostname.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-u
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--user &lt;username&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the username of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-p
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error. If this argument is specified, but no password is
        given then the command will prompt the user for a password through
        non-echoed stdin. You may also specify your password by using the
        environment variable CB_REST_PASSWORD.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--server-recovery &lt;servers&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        A command separated list of servers to recover. The each server should
        correspond to the hostname or IP address of a server to be added back to
        the cluster.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--recovery-type &lt;type&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies whether or not we should do full or delta recovery of data on the
        servers being added back. Full recover means that all data on the servers
        being recovered will be removed and we will recover all data. Specifying
        delta recover means we will keep the data that is on each server and only
        recover the data that each server doesn’t have. To specify full recovery set
        this option to "full". For delta recovery set this option to "delta". The
        default value for this option is "full".
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">HOST FORMATS</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">When specifying a host for the couchbase-cli command the following formats are expected:</p>
        <ul outputclass="db.itemizedlist">
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">couchbase://&lt;addr&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">http://&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
        </ul>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">It is recommended to use the couchbase://&lt;addr&gt; format for standard
installations. The other two formats allow an option to take a port number which
is needed for non-default installations where the admin port has been set up on
a port other that 8091.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">EXAMPLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">If we have a server at 192.168.1.6:8091 that we want to recover and we want to
recover data using delta recovery then we can run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli server-readd -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
 --password password --server-recovery 192.168.1.6:8091 \
 --recovery-type delta</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">If we need to recover multiple servers then we would run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli server-readd -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
 --password password --server-recovery 192.168.1.6:8091,192.168.1.7:8091 \
 --recovery-type delta</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">If we wanted the servers being recovered to use full recovery then we would run
the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli server-readd -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
 --password password --server-recovery 192.168.1.6:8091 \
 --recovery-type full</pre>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line. It also allows the user to ensure that their
        password are not cached in their command line history.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line.</p>
      </section></body>
    <related-links><link href="couchbase-cli-rebalance.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-server-add.dita" /></related-links></topic>
</dita>