<?xml version="1.0" standalone="no"?><!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "../../../../dtd/ditabase.dtd"><dita>
  <topic id="couchbaseclicollectlogsstatus1.idm67315280" outputclass="db.article" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title outputclass="db.title">collect-logs-status</title>
    
    <shortdesc>Get log collection status</shortdesc><body outputclass="db.article"><section><title outputclass="db.title">SYNTAX</title>
      
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"><i outputclass="db.emphasis">couchbase-cli collect-logs-status</i> [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--username &lt;user&gt;]
          [--password &lt;password&gt;]</codeblock></section><section><title outputclass="db.title">DESCRIPTION</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">This command is used to check the status of the log collection task that is
either currently running or last completed. This command is especially useful
since it lists the exact location of the collected files on each node. Upon a
successful run of this command the output will either be one of the two messages
below.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">No log collection tasks were found</pre>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">or</pre>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">Status: &lt;running | cancelled | completed&gt;
Details:
        Node: &lt;node name&gt;
        Status: &lt;started | collected&gt;
        path: &lt;path to the location of the collected logs&gt;</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">If logs for multiple nodes were collected, then multiple nodes will be listed in
the details section.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">OPTIONS</title>
      
      
      <dl outputclass="db.variablelist">
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-c
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the hostname of a node in the cluster. See the HOST FORMATS
        section for more information on specifying a hostname.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-u
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--user &lt;username&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the username of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-p
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error. If this argument is specified, but no password is
        given then the command will prompt the user for a password through
        non-echoed stdin. You may also specify your password by using the
        environment variable CB_REST_PASSWORD.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">HOST FORMATS</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">When specifying a host for the couchbase-cli command the following formats are expected:</p>
        <ul outputclass="db.itemizedlist">
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">couchbase://&lt;addr&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">http://&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
        </ul>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">It is recommended to use the couchbase://&lt;addr&gt; format for standard
installations. The other two formats allow an option to take a port number which
is needed for non-default installations where the admin port has been set up on
a port other that 8091.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">EXAMPLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">To see the status of a running or completed log collection task run the command
below.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli collect-logs-status -c 192.168.1.5 --username Administrator \
 --password password</pre>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">Status: completed
Details:
        Node: n_0@192.168.1.5
        Status: collected
        path: /opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/tmp/collectinfo-2016-09-27T005502-n_0@192.168.1.5.zip</pre>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line. It also allows the user to ensure that their
        password are not cached in their command line history.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line.</p>
      </section></body>
    <related-links><link href="couchbase-cli-collect-logs-start.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-collect-logs-stop.dita" /></related-links></topic>
</dita>