<?xml version="1.0" standalone="no"?><!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "../../../../dtd/ditabase.dtd"><dita>
  <topic id="couchbaseclisettingcompaction1.idm227732175120" outputclass="db.article" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title outputclass="db.title">setting-compaction</title>
    
    <shortdesc>Modifies compaction settings</shortdesc><body outputclass="db.article"><section><title outputclass="db.title">SYNTAX</title>
      
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"><i outputclass="db.emphasis">couchbase-cli setting-compaction</i> [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--username &lt;user&gt;]
          [--password &lt;password&gt;] [--compaction-db-percentage &lt;num&gt;]
          [--compaction-db-size &lt;megabytes&gt;] [--compaction-view-percentage &lt;num&gt;]
          [--compaction-view-size &lt;megabytes&gt;] [--compaction-period-from &lt;HH:MM&gt;]
          [--compaction-period-to &lt;HH:MM&gt;] [--enable-compaction-abort &lt;num&gt;]
          [--enable-compaction-parallel &lt;num&gt;] [--metadata-purge-interval &lt;num&gt;]
          [--gsi-compaction-mode &lt;mode&gt;] [--compaction-gsi-percentage &lt;percent&gt;]
          [--compaction-gsi-interval &lt;list_of_days&gt;]
          [--compaction-gsi-period-from &lt;HH:MM&gt;]
          [--compaction-gsi-period-to &lt;HH:MM&gt;] [--enable-gsi-compaction-abort &lt;1|0&gt;]</codeblock></section><section><title outputclass="db.title">DESCRIPTION</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">This command sets cluster-wide compaction settings for the views and data
service.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">OPTIONS</title>
      
      
      <dl outputclass="db.variablelist">
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-c
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specfies the hostname of a node in the cluster. See the HOST FORMATS
        section for more information on specifying a hostname.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-u
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--user &lt;username&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the username of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permision to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-p
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permision to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error. If this argument is specified, but no password is
        given then the command will prompt the user for a password through
        non-echoed stdin. You may also specify your password by using the
        environment variable CB_REST_PASSWORD.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--compaction-db-percentage &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Compacts database files once the framentation percentage is greater than
        the value set for this option. The value must be between 2 and 100.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--compaction-db-size &lt;megabytes&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Compacts the database files once the file fragmentation (in MB) is greater
        than the value of this option. This option must be set to a value
        greater than 1.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--compaction-view-percentage &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Compacts view files once the framentation percentage is greater than the
        value set for this option. The value must be between 2 and 100.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">--compaction-view-size: &lt;megabytes&gt;:
        Compacts the view files once the file fragmentation (in MB) is greater than
        the value of this option. This option must be set to a value greater than 1.</p>
        <dl outputclass="db.variablelist">
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--compaction-period-from &lt;HH:MM&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        This option is unsed in conjunction with the --compaction-period-to option
        and is used to specify a time period where compaction is allowed to run. You
        could for example specify that compaction should only run between midnight
        and 5AM each day by setting the compaction from period to "00:00" and the
        compaction to period to "5:00". When setting the value for this option you
        must use the format HH:MM when HH corresponds to the hour and MM corresponds
        to the minute. If this option is not specified then the compaction will run
        at any time of the day. This option only affects view and database file
        compaction.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--compaction-period-to &lt;HH:MM&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        This option is unsed in conjunction with the --compaction-period-from option
        and is used to specify a time period where compaction is allowed to run. You
        could for example specify that compaction should only run between midnight
        and 5AM each day by setting the compaction from period to "00:00" and the
        compaction to period to "5:00". When setting the value for this option you
        must use the format HH:MM when HH corresponds to the hour and MM corresponds
        to the minute. If this option is not specified then the compaction will run
        at any time of the day. This option only affects view and database file
        compaction.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--enable-compaction-abort &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        If a compaction from period and compaction to period are specified then this
        flag tells the server how to respond if a compaction starts during the
        allowed compaction interval and is still running once after the allowed
        interval has ended. If this option is set to "1" then the compaction will
        be aborted. If it is set to "0" then the compaction will be allowed to
        complete. By default this option is set to "0".
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--enable-compaction-parallel &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies whether view and database file compaction can run at the same
        time. Compactions can be disk intensive operations so it may be beneficial
        to only allow one type of compaction to run at a time. To allow parallel
        compactions set the value of this option to "1". To disable parallel
        compaction set the value fo this option to "0". By default this option is
        set to "0".
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--metadata-purge-interval &lt;days&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Couchbase persists deletes to disk because these deletes may need to be
        replicated in the future during intra-cluster replication as well as during
        cross datacenter replication. Couchbase cannot however keep these deletes
        forever because they will cause the database disk size to increase
        infinitely over time. To combat this issue Couchbase purges old deletes from
        disk periodically. This flag allow the user to set this interval. By default
        the purge interval is set to 7 days. This means that we purge deletes from
        disk that are more than 7 days old. The value of this option must be between
        0.04 (1 hour) and 60 (days).
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--gsi-compaction-mode &lt;mode&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the strategy for compaction in GSI Indexes. This option may be set
        to either append or circular. The append compaction strategy works by
        creating a new index file, moving the active data to the new index file, and
        then removing the old index file. This strategy will cause increased disk
        usage during compaction, but will cause the new index file to be smaller
        than the old one and as a result will free up disk space. The circular
        compaction strategy uses the same file, but moves data around in the file to
        create contigious free space which can be reused. This strategy uses no new
        space during compaction, but the resulting file size will not be decreased
        since the compacted file will result in a section of active data and free
        space.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--compaction-gsi-percentage &lt;percent&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies that gsi compaction should be started when the fragmentation in an
        index file has exceeded this percentage. This parameter only applies if the
        append compaction mode is used.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--compaction-gsi-interval &lt;list_of_days&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies that gsi compaction should only run on the specified days. This
        option takes a comma separated list of days where the name of the day is
        capitalized. Accepted values are Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,
        Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. If you only want compaction to run on Monday
        and Tuesday then the value of this option should be set to "Monday,Tuesday".
        This parameter only applies if circular compaction mode is used.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--compaction-gsi-period-from &lt;HH:MM&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        This option is unsed in conjunction with the --compaction-gsi-period-to
        option and is used to specify a time period where gsi compaction is allowed
        to run. You could for example specify that gsi compaction should only run
        between midnight and 5AM each day by setting the gsi compaction from period
        to "00:00" and the gsi compaction to period to "5:00". When setting the
        value for this option you must use the format HH:MM when HH corresponds to
        the hour and MM corresponds to the minute. If this option is not specified
        then compaction will run at any time of the day. This parameter only
        applies if circular compaction mode is used.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--compaction-gsi-period-to &lt;HH:MM&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        This option is unsed in conjunction with the --compaction-gsi-period-from
        option and is used to specify a time period where gsi compaction is allowed
        to run. You could for example specify that gsi compaction should only run
        between midnight and 5AM each day by setting the gsi compaction from period
        to "00:00" and the gsi compaction to period to "5:00". When setting the
        value for this option you must use the format HH:MM when HH corresponds to
        the hour and MM corresponds to the minute. If this option is not specified
        then gsi compaction will run at any time of the day. This parameter only
        applies if circular compaction mode is used.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--enable-gsi-compaction-abort &lt;1|0&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        If a gsi compaction from period and gsi compaction to period are specified
        then this flag tells the server how to respond if a compaction starts during
        the allowed gsi compaction interval and is still running after the allowed
        interval has ended. If this option is set to "1" then the gsi compaction
        will be aborted. If it is set to "0" then the gsi compaction will be allowed
        to complete. By default this option is set to "0". This parameter only
        applies if circular compaction mode is used.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">HOST FORMATS</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">When specifying a host for the couchbase-cli command the following formats are expected:</p>
        <ul outputclass="db.itemizedlist">
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">couchbase://&lt;addr&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">http://&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
        </ul>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">It is recommended to use the couchbase://&lt;addr&gt; format for standard
installations. The other two formats allow an option to take a port number which
is needed for non-default installations where the admin port has been set up on
a port other that 8091.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">EXAMPLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">If we want to set our view and database compaction percentage thresholds to 30%
each, but also wanted to ensure that our fragementation didn’t grow above 1GB
we would run the following command</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli setting-compaction -c 192.168.1.5 --username Administrator \
 --password password --compaction-view-size 1024 --compaction-db-size 1024 \
 --compaction-view-percentage 30 --compaction-db-percentage 30</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">If we want to have the same settings as above, but we wanted compaction to only
run at night so that we didn’t run the risk of compaction affecting normal
application traffic we would run the following command. Note that in this
example we will assume our night time period is midnight to 6AM. We will also
enable compaction aborts so that we can ensure compaction is never running
outside of this time window.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli setting-compaction -c 192.168.1.5 --username Administrator \
 --password password --compaction-view-size 1024 --compaction-db-size 1024 \
 --compaction-view-percentage 30 --compaction-db-percentage 30 \
 --compaction-period-from 00:00 --compaction-period-to 6:00 \
 --enable-compaction-abort 1</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">If we don’t mind when compaction runs and we have the disk overhead to run both
view and database compaction at the same time then we might set up comaction
with the settings in the first example, but also enable parallel compactions.
This can be done by running the command below.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli setting-compaction -c 192.168.1.5 --username Administrator \
 --password password --compaction-view-size 1024 --compaction-db-size 1024 \
 --compaction-view-percentage 30 --compaction-db-percentage 30 \
 --enable-compaction-parallel</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">If your application heavily uses expirations or you create and delete a lot of
documents quickly then you might want to shorten your metadata purge interval
in order to ensure that you don’t use too much disk space. If we want our
compactions to run when the fragmentation is 30% or 1GB and we want to change
the metadata purge interval to 2 days then we would run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli setting-compaction -c 192.168.1.5 --username Administrator \
 --password password --compaction-view-size 1024 --compaction-db-size 1024 \
 --compaction-view-percentage 30 --compaction-db-percentage 30 \
 --meta-data-purge-interval 2</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">If you need to change the GSI index compaction settings to use the append
compaction mode and want gsi compaction only to happen once your file is 50%
fragmented specify the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli setting-compaction -c 192.168.1.5 --username Administrator \
 --password password --gsi-compaction-mode append \
 --compaction-gsi-percentage 50</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">If you want to change the GSI index compaction settings to use the circular
compaction mode and want gsi compaction only to happen on Tuesdays and Thursdays
between midnight and 3AM and don’t want gsi compaction running outside of those
time windows even if the compaction started at a valid time specify the
following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli setting-compaction -c 192.168.1.5 --username Administrator \
 --password password --gsi-compaction-mode circular \
 --compaction-gsi-interval Tuesday,Thursday \
 --compaction-gsi-period-from 00:00 \
 --compaction-gsi-period-to 3:00 --enable-gsi-compaction-abort 1</pre>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line. It also allows the user to ensure that their
        password are not cached in their command line history.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line.</p>
      </section></body>
    <related-links><link href="couchbase-cli-bucket-compact.dita" /></related-links></topic>
</dita>