<?xml version="1.0" standalone="no"?><!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "../../../../dtd/ditabase.dtd"><dita>
  <topic id="couchbasecliclusterinit1.idm77836144" outputclass="db.article" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title outputclass="db.title">cluster-init</title>
    
    <shortdesc>Initializes a Couchbase Server cluster</shortdesc><body outputclass="db.article"><section><title outputclass="db.title">SYNTAX</title>
      
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"><i outputclass="db.emphasis">couchbase-cli cluster-init</i> [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--cluster-username &lt;username&gt;]
          [--cluster-password &lt;password&gt;] [--cluster-port &lt;port&gt;]
          [--cluster-ramsize &lt;megabytes&gt;] [--cluster-name &lt;name&gt;]
          [--cluster-index-ramsize &lt;megabytes&gt;] [--cluster-fts-ramsize &lt;megabytes&gt;]
          [--index-storage-setting &lt;setting&gt;] [--services &lt;services&gt;]</codeblock></section><section><title outputclass="db.title">DESCRIPTION</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">Initializes the first node in a Couchbase Server cluster. Before initializing a
cluster you need to decide which services you will be running on this node as
well as the memory quota for each service you are starting. Services started
with cluster-init will be running on this server only. Future servers that are
added to this cluster may be configured with different services
running on them. Note that the data service is always required on the first
node. Memory quotas for each service are global settings and will apply to each
node added to the cluster. The memory quota for a service only applies if that
service is running on a given server. You may also define the index storage mode
which will determine how the global secondary indexes (GSI) are stored.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">OPTIONS</title>
      
      
      <dl outputclass="db.variablelist">
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-c
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the hostname of the cluster to initialize. By default, this
        parameter is set to localhost:8091 for this command. See the HOST FORMATS
        section for more information on specifying a hostname.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster-username
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        When starting a new cluster you need to create the Couchbase Server built-in
        administrator user for the cluster. This user will be able to access the
        Couchbase Server Administration Console as well as be used for data access
        and future configuration. This option specifies the username for the
        administrator user.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster-password
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        When starting a new cluster you need to create the Couchbase Server built-in
        administrator user for the cluster. This user will be able to access the
        Couchbase Server Administration Console as well as be used for data access
        and future configuration. This option specifies the password for the
        administrator user.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster-ramsize
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the data services memory quota (in MB). This quota will be assigned
        to all future nodes added to the cluster with the data service.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster-fts-ramsize
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Sets the full-text service memory quota (in MB). This parameter is required
        if the full-text service is specified in the --services option. This quota will
        be assigned to all future nodes added to the cluster with the full-text
        service.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster-index-ramsize
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Sets the index service memory quota (in MB). This parameter is required if
        the index service is specified in the --services option. This quota will be
        assigned to all future nodes added to the cluster with the index service.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
                  <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster-eventing-ramsize
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Sets the eventing service memory quota (in MB), defaults to 256. This quota will be
        assigned to all future nodes added to the cluster with the eventing service.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster-name
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Sets the name for this cluster. Naming clusters is useful when you have
        multiple Couchbase Server clusters in your deployment.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster-port
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the port for the Couchbase Administration Console. Defaults to
        port 8091.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--index-storage-setting
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the index storage mode for the index service. Accepted storage
        modes are "default" for the standard index backend or "memopt" for memory
        optimized indexes. If the index service is specified to be started with the
        --services command then this parameter defaults to "default". If the index
        service is not specified to be started then the index storage mode will not
        be set. You will then be required to set the index storage mode when the
        first index service is started on a server in the cluster. You may also
        define the index storage mode even if an index service is not started on the
        first node and it will be remembered when the first index service is added
        in the future. You may not change this parameter while there are index nodes
        in the cluster.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--services
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the services to start on this cluster. You may not change the
        services running on this node once the cluster has been initialized. This
        options takes a comma separated list of services. Accepted services are
        "data", "index", "query", and "fts", specified as a comma-separated list.
        This parameter defaults to "data".
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">HOST FORMATS</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">When specifying a host for the couchbase-cli command the following formats are expected:</p>
        <ul outputclass="db.itemizedlist">
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">couchbase://&lt;addr&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">http://&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
        </ul>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">It is recommended to use the couchbase://&lt;addr&gt; format for standard
installations. The other two formats allow an option to take a port number which
is needed for non-default installations where the admin port has been set up on
a port other that 8091.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">EXAMPLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">To create a Couchbase Server cluster with only the data service on the first node
and a memory quota of 4096MB run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli cluster-init -c 127.0.0.1 --cluster-username Administrator \
 --cluster-password password --services data --cluster-ramsize 4096</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To create a Couchbase Server cluster with the data and index service then you
also need to set the memory quotas for each service as well as the index storage
mode since you are starting the index service.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To create a cluster with an index memory quota of 1024MB, a data service memory
quota of 2048MB and a memory optimized index storage mode run the following
command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli cluster-init -c 127.0.0.1 --cluster-username Administrator \
 --cluster-password password --services data,index --cluster-ramsize 2048 \
 --cluster-index-ramsize 1024 --index-storage-setting memopt</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To create a Couchbase Server cluster with all services then you need to set
the memory quotas for the data, index, and full-text service. The quotas are set
to 2048MB, 1024MB, and 1024MB respectively. A quota is not set
for the query service since it does not have a memory quota. You also need to set
the index storage mode for the index service, which will be set to "default"
since the service is started on the first node.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli cluster-init -c 127.0.0.1 --cluster-username Administrator \
 --cluster-password password --services data,index,query,fts \
 --cluster-ramsize 2048 --cluster-index-ramsize 1024 \
 --cluster-fts-ramsize 1024 --index-storage-setting default \</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">If you want to set the port number you can do so with the --cluster-port
option. In the example below, a cluster is setup on port 5000 and starts
only the data service. The memory quota of the data service is set to 2048MB.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli cluster-init -c 127.0.0.1 --cluster-username Administrator \
 --cluster-password password --services data --cluster-ramsize 2048 \
 --cluster-port 5000</pre>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">DISCUSSION</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">The cluster-init subcommand sets up the first node on a Couchbase cluster. To
set per node settings such as the data storage directory, index storage
directory, or hostname see the <cite outputclass="db.citerefentry">
<ph outputclass="db.refentrytitle">couchbase-cli-node-init</ph><ph outputclass="db.manvolnum">1</ph>
</cite> command. To
add nodes to a currently initialized cluster use the
<cite outputclass="db.citerefentry">
<ph outputclass="db.refentrytitle">couchbase-cli-server-add</ph><ph outputclass="db.manvolnum">1</ph>
</cite> command. Some cluster settings may be
changed after a cluster is initialized. Use the
<cite outputclass="db.citerefentry">
<ph outputclass="db.refentrytitle">couchbase-cli-setting-cluster</ph><ph outputclass="db.manvolnum">1</ph>
</cite> command to edit these settings.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line. It also allows the user to ensure that their
        password are not cached in their command line history.</p>
      </section></body>
    <related-links><link href="couchbase-cli-cluster-edit.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-node-init.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-server-add.dita" /></related-links></topic>
</dita>
