<?xml version="1.0" standalone="no"?><!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "../../../../dtd/ditabase.dtd"><dita>
  <topic id="couchbaseclisettingindex1.idm98189216" outputclass="db.article" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title outputclass="db.title">setting-index</title>
    
    <shortdesc>Modifies index settings</shortdesc><body outputclass="db.article"><section><title outputclass="db.title">SYNTAX</title>
      
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"><i outputclass="db.emphasis">couchbase-cli setting-index</i> [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--username &lt;user&gt;]
          [--password &lt;password&gt;] [--index-max-rollback-points &lt;num&gt;]
          [--index-stable-snapshot-interval &lt;seconds&gt;]
          [--index-memory-snapshot-interval &lt;milliseconds&gt;]
          [--index-storage-setting &lt;type&gt;] [--index-threads &lt;num&gt;]
          [--index-log-level &lt;level&gt;]</codeblock></section><section><title outputclass="db.title">DESCRIPTION</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">This command sets various advanced settings for the index service.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">OPTIONS</title>
      
      
      <dl outputclass="db.variablelist">
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-c
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the hostname of a node in the cluster. See the HOST FORMATS
        section for more information on specifying a hostname.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-u
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--user &lt;username&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the username of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-p
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error. If this argument is specified, but no password is
        given then the command will prompt the user for a password through
        non-echoed stdin. You may also specify your password by using the
        environment variable CB_REST_PASSWORD.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--index-max-rollback-points &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The maximum number of rollback points. The value of this option must be
        greater than or equal to 1.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--index-stable-snapshot-interval &lt;seconds&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the frequency of persisted snapshots for recovery in seconds. This
        means that in the event of a failover this is the farthest back we may have
        to rebuild the index from. This value of this parameter must be greater than
</p>
<ol outputclass="db.orderedlist"><li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
If this options is not specified it defaults to 30000 seconds (8 hours
        20 minutes).
</p>
</li></ol>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--index-memory-snapshot-interval &lt;milliseconds&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the frequency of in-memory snapshots in milliseconds. This
        determines the earliest possibility of a scan seeing a given KV mutation.
        This value of this parameter must be greater than 1. This parameter defaults
        to 200 if it is not specified.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--index-storage-setting &lt;type&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Sets the index storage mode for all indexes in this cluster. This parameter
        may only be changed if there are no nodes running the index service. To
        specify the disk based forestdb index backend set this parameter to
        "default". To set the storage mode to use memory optimized indexes set this
        parameter to "memopt".
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--index-threads &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Sets the number of CPUs that can be used by the indexer. The value of this
        option must be between 0 and 1024. If this option is not set then it
        default to 4.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--index-log-level &lt;level&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Sets the log level for the index service. Valid log levels include "debug",
        "silent", "fatal", "error", "warn", "info", "verbose", "timing", and
        "trace".
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">HOST FORMATS</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">When specifying a host for the couchbase-cli command the following formats are expected:</p>
        <ul outputclass="db.itemizedlist">
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">couchbase://&lt;addr&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">http://&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
        </ul>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">It is recommended to use the couchbase://&lt;addr&gt; format for standard
installations. The other two formats allow an option to take a port number which
is needed for non-default installations where the admin port has been set up on
a port other that 8091.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">EXAMPLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">To set the max index rollback points to 8, the index stable snapshot interval to
40000 seconds, the index memory snapshot interval to 150 milliseconds, the index
thread count to 8 and in the index log level to info run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">   $ couchbase-cli setting-index -c 127.0.0.1:8091 -u Administrator \
    -p password --index-max-rollback-points 8 --index-threads 8 \
--index-log-level info --index-stable-snapshot-interval 40000 \
--index-memory-snapshot-interval 150 \</pre>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line. It also allows the user to ensure that their
        password are not cached in their command line history.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line.</p>
      </section></body>
    <related-links><link href="couchbase-cli-setting-cluster.dita" /></related-links></topic>
</dita>