<?xml version="1.0" standalone="no"?><!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "../../../../dtd/ditabase.dtd"><dita>
  <topic id="couchbaseclisettingalert1.idm88672080" outputclass="db.article" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title outputclass="db.title">setting-alert</title>
    
    <shortdesc>Modifies alert settings</shortdesc><body outputclass="db.article"><section><title outputclass="db.title">SYNTAX</title>
      
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"><i outputclass="db.emphasis">couchbase-cli setting-alert</i> [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--username &lt;user&gt;]
          [--password &lt;password&gt;] [--enable-email-alert &lt;num&gt;]
          [--email-recipients &lt;email_list&gt;] [--email-sender &lt;email&gt;]
          [--email-user &lt;user&gt;] [--email-password &lt;password&gt;] [--email-host &lt;host&gt;]
          [--email-port &lt;port&gt;] [--enable-email-encrypt &lt;num&gt;]
          [--alert-auto-failover-node] [--alert-auto-failover-max-reached]
          [--alert-auto-failover-node-down] [--alert-auto-failover-cluster-small]
          [--alert-auto-failover-disable] [--alert-ip-changed] [--alert-disk-space]
          [--alert-meta-overhead] [--alert-meta-oom] [--alert-write-failed]
          [--alert-audit-msg-dropped] [--alert-indexer-max-ram]
          [--alert-timestamp-drift-exceeded]</codeblock></section><section><title outputclass="db.title">DESCRIPTION</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">This command is used to set up email alerts on a cluster. Couchbase provides
alerts for various issues that may arise in the cluster where it is recommended
that the cluster administrator take action to ensure that applications continue
to function properly. When setting up email alerts administrator can decide who
gets alert emails and which alerts are sent.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">OPTIONS</title>
      
      
      <dl outputclass="db.variablelist">
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-c
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the hostname of a node in the cluster. See the HOST FORMATS
        section for more information on specifying a hostname.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-u
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--user &lt;username&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the username of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-p
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error. If this argument is specified, but no password is
        given then the command will prompt the user for a password through
        non-echoed stdin. You may also specify your password by using the
        environment variable CB_REST_PASSWORD.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--enable-email-alert &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Enables email alerts on this cluster. Set this option to "1" to enable
        alerts or "0" to disable alerts. This parameter is required.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--email-recipients &lt;email_list&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        A comma separated list of users to email when an alert is raised in the
        server.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--email-sender &lt;email&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        If email alerts an enabled then this option will set the sender email
        address.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--email-user &lt;user&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The email server username for the sender email address. This field is
        required if the email address provided requires authentication.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--email-password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The email server password for the sender email address. This field is
        required if the email address provided requires authentication.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--email-host &lt;host&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The email server hostname that hosts the email address specified by the
        --sender-email option.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--email-port &lt;port&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The email server port number of the server that hosts the email address
        specified by the --sender-email option.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--enable-email-encrypt &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Enables SSL encryption when connecting to the email server. Set this option
        to "1" to enable encryption or "0" to disable encryption. If this option is
        not set then encryption will be disabled.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--alert-auto-failover-node
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies that an email alert should be sent when a node is automatically
        failed over.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--alert-auto-failover-max-reached
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies that an email alert should be sent when the maximum amount of
        auto-failovers is reached.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--alert-auto-failover-node-down
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies that an email alert should be sent when auto-failover could not be
        completed because another node in the cluster was already down.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--alert-auto-failover-cluster-small
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies that an email alert should be sent when auto-failover could not be
        completed because the cluster is too small.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--alert-auto-failover-disable
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies that an email alert should be sent when auto-failover could not be
        completed because auto-failover is disabled on this cluster.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--alert-ip-changed
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies that an email alert should be sent when the IP address on a node
        in the cluster changes.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--alert-disk-space
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies that an email alert should be sent when the disk usage on a node
        in the cluster reaches 90% of the available disk space.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--alert-meta-overhead
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies that an email alert should be sent when the metadata overhead on
        the data service is more than 50%.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--alert-meta-oom
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies that an email alert should be sent when all of the memory in the
        cache for a bucket is used by metadata. If this condition is hit the bucket
        will be unusable until more memory is added to the bucket cache.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--alert-write-failed
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies that an email alert should be sent when writing data to disk on
        the data service has failed.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--alert-audit-msg-dropped
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies that an email alert should be sent when writing event to audit log
        fails.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--alert-indexer-max-ram
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies that an email alert should be sent when the memory usage for the
        indexer service on a specific node exceeds the per node memory usage limit.
        This warning is only shown for if the index storage type is Memory Optimized
        Indexes (MOI).
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">--alert-timestamp-drift-exceeded
        Specifies that an email alert should be sent if the clocks on two different
        machines in the cluster are more that five seconds apart.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">HOST FORMATS</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">When specifying a host for the couchbase-cli command the following formats are expected:</p>
        <ul outputclass="db.itemizedlist">
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">couchbase://&lt;addr&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">http://&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
        </ul>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">It is recommended to use the couchbase://&lt;addr&gt; format for standard
installations. The other two formats allow an option to take a port number which
is needed for non-default installations where the admin port has been set up on
a port other that 8091.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">EXAMPLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">To enable failover related email alerts for two users without email encryption
run the following command below:</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli setting-alert -c 192.168.1.5 --username Administrator \
 --password password --enable-email-alert 1 --email-user admin \
 --email-password password --email-host mail.couchbase.com --email-port 25 \
 --email-recipients user1@couchbase.com,user2@couchbase.com \
 --email-sender noreply@couchbase.com --enable-email-encrypt 0 \
 --alert-auto-failover-node --alert-auto-failover-max-reached \
 --alert-auto-failover-node-down --alert-auto-failover-cluster-small \</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To enable all email alerts for a single users with email encryption run the
following command below:</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli setting-alert -c 192.168.1.5 --username Administrator \
 --password password --enable-email-alert 1 --email-user admin \
 --email-password password --email-host mail.couchbase.com --email-port 25 \
 --email-recipients user@couchbase.com --email-sender noreply@couchbase.com \
 --enable-email-encrypt 1 --alert-auto-failover-node \
 --alert-auto-failover-max-reached --alert-auto-failover-node-down \
 --alert-auto-failover-cluster-small --alert-auto-failover-disable \
 --alert-ip-changed --alert-disk-space --alert-meta-overhead \
 --alert-meta-oom --alert-write-failed --alert-audit-msg-dropped \
 --alert-indexer-max-ram --alert-timestamp-drift-exceeded \</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To disable email alerts run the following command:</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli setting-alert -c 192.168.1.5 --username Administrator \
 --password password --enable-email-alert 0</pre>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line. It also allows the user to ensure that their
        password are not cached in their command line history.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line.</p>
      </section></body>
    <related-links><link href="couchbase-cli-setting-notification.dita" /></related-links></topic>
</dita>