<?xml version="1.0" standalone="no"?><!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "../../../../dtd/ditabase.dtd"><dita>
  <topic id="couchbaseclibucketcompact1.idm59118672" outputclass="db.article" xml:lang="en-us">

    <title outputclass="db.title">bucket-compact</title>
    
    <shortdesc>Compact a bucket</shortdesc><body outputclass="db.article"><section><title outputclass="db.title">SYNTAX</title>
      
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"><i outputclass="db.emphasis">couchbase-cli bucket-compact</i> [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--username &lt;user&gt;]
          [--password &lt;password&gt;] [--bucket &lt;name&gt;]</codeblock></section><section><title outputclass="db.title">DESCRIPTION</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">Starts compaction of view index and data files for a specified bucket. To
compact view index files only, specify the --view-only option. To compact data
files only, specify the --data-only option. Only Couchbase buckets can be
compacted: Ephemeral and Memcached buckets cannot be compacted.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">OPTIONS</title>
      
      
      <dl outputclass="db.variablelist">
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-c
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the hostname of a node in the cluster. See the HOST FORMATS
        section for more information on specifying a hostname.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-u
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--user &lt;username&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the username of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-p
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error. If this argument is specified, but no password is
        given then the command will prompt the user for a password through
        non-echoed stdin. You may also specify your password by using the
        environment variable CB_REST_PASSWORD.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--bucket
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The name of the bucket on which to perform compaction.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--data-only
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Indicates that only data files should be compacted, and that compaction
        for view index files should therefore be skipped. This option cannot be
        specified at the same time as the --view-only option.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--view-only
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Indicates that only view index files should be compacted, and that
        compaction for data files should therefore be skipped. This option cannot be
        specified at the same time as the --data-only option.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">HOST FORMATS</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">When specifying a host for the couchbase-cli command the following formats are expected:</p>
        <ul outputclass="db.itemizedlist">
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">couchbase://&lt;addr&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">http://&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
        </ul>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">It is recommended to use the couchbase://&lt;addr&gt; format for standard
installations. The other two formats allow an option to take a port number which
is needed for non-default installations where the admin port has been set up on
a port other that 8091.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">EXAMPLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">To start compaction of both data and view index files for a bucket named
"travel-data", run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli bucket-compact -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
 --password password --bucket travel-data</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">If view index files only should be compacted for a specific bucket, and
data files thereby skipped, run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli bucket-compact -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
 --password password --bucket travel-data --view-only</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">If data files only should be compacted for a specific bucket, and view
index files thereby skipped, run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli bucket-compact -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
 --password password --bucket travel-data --data-only</pre>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line. It also allows the user to ensure that their
        password are not cached in their command line history.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line.</p>
      </section></body>
    <related-links><link href="couchbase-cli-bucket-compact.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-bucket-create.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-bucket-delete.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-bucket-edit.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-bucket-flush.dita" /></related-links></topic>
</dita>