<?xml version="1.0" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "../../../../dtd/ditabase.dtd"><dita>
  <topic id="couchbaseclixdcrreplicate1.idm99370208" outputclass="db.article" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title outputclass="db.title">xdcr-replicate</title>
    
    <shortdesc>Creates a replication between two data centers</shortdesc><body outputclass="db.article"><section><title outputclass="db.title">SYNTAX</title>
      
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"><i outputclass="db.emphasis">couchbase-cli xdcr-replicate</i> [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--username &lt;user&gt;]
          [--password &lt;password&gt;] [--create] [--delete] [--pause] [--list]
          [--resume] [--settings] [--xdcr-from-bucket &lt;bucket&gt;]
          [--xdcr-to-bucket &lt;bucket&gt;] [--xdcr-cluster-name &lt;name&gt;]
          [--xdcr-replication-mode &lt;mode&gt;] [--filter-expression &lt;regex&gt;]
          [--xdcr-replicator &lt;id&gt;] [--checkpoint-interval &lt;seconds&gt;]
          [--worker-batch-size &lt;num&gt;] [--doc-batch-size &lt;kilobytes&gt;]
          [--failure-restart-interval &lt;seconds&gt;] [--source-nozzle-per-node &lt;num&gt;]
          [--target-nozzle-per-node &lt;num&gt;] [--bandwidth-usage-limit &lt;num&gt;]
          [--stats-interval &lt;milliseconds&gt;]
          [--optimistic-replication-threshold &lt;bytes&gt;] [--log-level &lt;level&gt;]</codeblock></section><section><title outputclass="db.title">DESCRIPTION</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">This command is used to manage XDCR replications.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">OPTIONS</title>
      
      
      <dl outputclass="db.variablelist">
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-c
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the hostname of a node in the cluster. See the HOST FORMATS
        section for more information on specifying a hostname.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-u
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--user &lt;username&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the username of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-p
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error. If this argument is specified, but no password is
        given then the command will prompt the user for a password through
        non-echoed stdin. You may also specify your password by using the
        environment variable CB_REST_PASSWORD.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--create
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Creates a new XDCR replication.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--delete
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Deletes an XDCR replication.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--pause
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Pauses an XDCR replication.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--list
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Lists all XDCR replications.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--resume
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Resumes an XDCR replication.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--settings
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Sets advanced settings for an XDCR replication.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--xdcr-from-bucket &lt;bucket&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The name bucket to replicate data from.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--xdcr-to-bucket &lt;bucket&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The name bucket to replicate data to.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--xdcr-cluster-name &lt;name&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The name of the cluster reference to replicate to.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--xdcr-replication-mode &lt;mode&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The XDCR replication protocol to use. This can be set to either "capi" or
        "xmem".
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--filter-expression &lt;regex&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        A regular expression used to filter the replication stream.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--xdcr-replicator &lt;id&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The XDCR Replication ID. To get a list of replicator ID’s use the --list
        flag.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--checkpoint-interval &lt;seconds&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The interval between checkpoints in seconds. The value of this option must
        be between 60 and 14,400.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--worker-batch-size &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The worker batch size. The value of this option must be between 500 and
        10,000.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--doc-batch-size &lt;kilobytes&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The document batch size in Kilobytes. The value of this option must be
        between 10 and 100,000.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--failure-restart-interval &lt;seconds&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Interval for restarting failed XDCR connections in seconds. The value of
        this option must be between 1 and 300.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--optimistic-replication-threshold &lt;bytes&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Document body size threshold in bytes used to trigger optimistic
        replication.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--source-nozzle-per-node &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The number of source nozzles to each node in the target cluster. The
        value of this option must be between 1 and 10.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--target-nozzle-per-node &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The number of outgoing nozzles to each node in the target cluster. The
        value of this option must be between 1 and 10.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--bandwidth-usage-limit &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The bandwidth limit for XDCR replications in Megabytes per second for this
        replication.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--log-level &lt;level&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The XDCR log level.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--stats-interval &lt;milliseconds&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The interval for statistics updates in milliseconds.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">HOST FORMATS</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">When specifying a host for the couchbase-cli command the following formats are expected:</p>
        <ul outputclass="db.itemizedlist">
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">couchbase://&lt;addr&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">http://&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
        </ul>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">It is recommended to use the couchbase://&lt;addr&gt; format for standard
installations. The other two formats allow an option to take a port number which
is needed for non-default installations where the admin port has been set up on
a port other that 8091.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">EXAMPLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">To create a new XDCR replication from the "default" bucket to the "apps" bucket
on a remote cluster called "east" using the xmem replication protocol. You can
run the following command below. Note that if you have not setup a remote
cluster reference then you need to do this first by running the
<cite outputclass="db.citerefentry">
<ph outputclass="db.refentrytitle">couchbase-cli-xdcr-setup</ph><ph outputclass="db.manvolnum">1</ph>
</cite>.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli xdcr-replicate -c 192.168.1.5 -u Administrator \
 -p password --create --xdcr-cluster-name east --xdcr-from-bucket apps \
 --xdcr-to-bucket apps --xdcr-replication-mode xmem</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To list all of the current XDCR replication you can run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli xdcr-replicate -c 192.168.1.5 -u Administrator \
 -p password --list</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To delete an XDCR replication you first need to use the --list flag to get the
replicator id. Once you get the replicator id (in this case we will assume it is
f4eb540d74c43fd3ac6d4b7910c8c92f/default/default) you can run the command below
to delete the replication.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli xdcr-replicate -c 192.168.1.5 -u Administrator \
 -p password --delete \
 --xdcr-replicator=f4eb540d74c43fd3ac6d4b7910c8c92f/default/default</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To pause an XDCR replication you first need to use the --list flag to get the
replicator id. Once you get the replicator id (in this case we will assume it is
f4eb540d74c43fd3ac6d4b7910c8c92f/default/default) you can run the command below
to pause the replication.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli xdcr-replicate -c 192.168.1.5 -u Administrator \
 -p password --pause \
 --xdcr-replicator=f4eb540d74c43fd3ac6d4b7910c8c92f/default/default</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To resume an XDCR replication you first need to use the --list flag to get the
replicator id. Once you get the replicator id (in this case we will assume it is
f4eb540d74c43fd3ac6d4b7910c8c92f/default/default) you can run the command below
to resume the replication.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli xdcr-replicate -c 192.168.1.5 -u Administrator \
 -p password --resume \
 --xdcr-replicator=f4eb540d74c43fd3ac6d4b7910c8c92f/default/default</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To modify the settings of an XDCR replication you first need to use the --list
flag to get the replicator id. Once you get the replicator id (in this case we
will assume it is f4eb540d74c43fd3ac6d4b7910c8c92f/default/default) you can run
the command if for example you wanted to change the document batch size to 2048
and failure restart interval to 60 seconds.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">   $ couchbase-cli xdcr-replicate -c 192.168.1.5 -u Administrator \
    -p password --settings --failure-restart-interval=60 \
    --xdcr-replicator=f4eb540d74c43fd3ac6d4b7910c8c92f/default/default \
--doc-batch-size=2048</pre>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line. It also allows the user to ensure that their
        password are not cached in their command line history.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line.</p>
      </section></body>
    <related-links><link href="couchbase-cli-setting-xdcr.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-xdcr-setup.dita" /></related-links></topic>
</dita>