<?xml version="1.0" standalone="no"?><!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "../../../../dtd/ditabase.dtd"><dita>
  <topic id="couchbasecliserveradd1.idp2044928" outputclass="db.article" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title outputclass="db.title">server-add</title>
    
    <shortdesc>Adds a server to the cluster</shortdesc><body outputclass="db.article"><section><title outputclass="db.title">SYNTAX</title>
      
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"><i outputclass="db.emphasis">couchbase-cli server-add</i> [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--username &lt;username&gt;]
          [--password &lt;password&gt;] [--server-add &lt;servers&gt;] [--group-name &lt;name&gt;]
          [--server-add-username &lt;username&gt;] [--server-add-password &lt;password&gt;]
          [--services &lt;services&gt;] [--index-storage-setting &lt;mode&gt;]</codeblock></section><section><title outputclass="db.title">DESCRIPTION</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">The server-add subcommand is used to add one or more servers to a cluster.
Before adding a server it is important to decide which services the server will
be running and whether or not the server should be a part of a specific group.
Keep in mind that if the index service is being added on one of the servers and
the cluster is not currently running the index service that you also need to
set the index stoare mode. This can be done with the --index-storage-setting
option.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">OPTIONS</title>
      
      
      <dl outputclass="db.variablelist">
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-c
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the hostname of a node in the cluster. See the HOST FORMATS
        section for more information on specifying a hostname.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-u
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--user &lt;username&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the username of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-p
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error. If this argument is specified, but no password is
        given then the command will prompt the user for a password through
        non-echoed stdin. You may also specify your password by using the
        environment variable CB_REST_PASSWORD.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--server-add &lt;servers&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        A comma separated list of servers to add to the cluster. The each server in
        the list should be identified by a hostname or IP address.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--server-add-username &lt;username&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Adding a server to the cluster can only be done by a user with the
        appropriate credentials. This flag specifies the username for a user who
        has the ability to modify the cluster topology on the server being added.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--server-add-password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Adding a server to the cluster can only be done by a user with the
        appropriate credentials. This flag specifies the password for a user who
        has the ability to modify the cluster topology on the server being added.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--group-name &lt;name&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The name of the group to add the server to. If this option is not specified
        then the server is added to the default group.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--services &lt;services&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        A comma separated list of services that this server should be running. The
        data service is specified with "data", the index service is specified with
        "index", the query service is specified with "query", and the full-text
        service is specified with "fts".
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--index-storage-setting &lt;mode&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the index storage mode. This parameter must be set if the servers
        being added contain the index service and this is the first time the index
        service is being added in this cluster. You may specify "default" for disk
        based indexes or "memopt" for memory optimized indexes.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">HOST FORMATS</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">When specifying a host for the couchbase-cli command the following formats are expected:</p>
        <ul outputclass="db.itemizedlist">
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">couchbase://&lt;addr&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">http://&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
        </ul>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">It is recommended to use the couchbase://&lt;addr&gt; format for standard
installations. The other two formats allow an option to take a port number which
is needed for non-default installations where the admin port has been set up on
a port other that 8091.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">EXAMPLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">If we want to add a server at 192.168.1.6:8091 with the index, data and query
service on it then we would run the command below.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli server-add -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
 --password password --server-add 192.168.1.6:8091 \
 --server-add-username Administrator --server-add-password password
 --services data,index,query</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">Note that in the example above we set the username and password of the server
being added to the same value as the username and password of the servers
already in the cluster. This is done if the server being added has not already
been initialized. If the server being added has been initialized then you will
need to specify an appropriate username and password for the server being added.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">Now lets add two server to the East group with data, index,and full-text
services. In this example we will also assume that the index is being added for
the first time so we need to specify the index storage mode. If we want to index
storage mode to be memory optimized then we would run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli server-add -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
 --password password --server-readd 192.168.1.6:8091,192.168.1.7:8091 \
 --server-username Administrator --server-password password
 --services data,fts --group-name --index-storage-setting memopt</pre>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line. It also allows the user to ensure that their
        password are not cached in their command line history.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line.</p>
      </section></body>
    <related-links><link href="couchbase-cli-rebalance.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-server-info.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-server-list.dita" /></related-links></topic>
</dita>