<?xml version="1.0" standalone="no"?><!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "../../../../dtd/ditabase.dtd"><dita>
  <topic id="couchbaseclirebalance1.idm69774368" outputclass="db.article" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title outputclass="db.title">rebalance</title>
    
    <shortdesc>Rebalances data and indexes across nodes in a cluster</shortdesc><body outputclass="db.article"><section><title outputclass="db.title">SYNTAX</title>
      
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"><i outputclass="db.emphasis">couchbase-cli rebalance</i> [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--username &lt;user&gt;]
          [--password &lt;password&gt;] [--server-remove &lt;servers&gt;] [--no-progress-bar]
          [--no-wait]</codeblock></section><section><title outputclass="db.title">DESCRIPTION</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">Rebalances data and indexes across all nodes in the cluster. This command
should be used after nodes are added, removed, or failed over from the cluster
in order to ensure that each node in the cluster has a similar "balanced" amount
of data and indexes.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To add nodes use the <cite outputclass="db.citerefentry">
<ph outputclass="db.refentrytitle">couchbase-cli-server-add</ph><ph outputclass="db.manvolnum">1</ph>
</cite> subcommand. To
remove nodes specify the list of nodes to remove using the --server-remove
option in the rebalance subcommand. To failover nodes see the
<cite outputclass="db.citerefentry">
<ph outputclass="db.refentrytitle">couchbase-cli-failover</ph><ph outputclass="db.manvolnum">1</ph>
</cite> subcommand. After running the
<cite outputclass="db.citerefentry">
<ph outputclass="db.refentrytitle">couchbase-cli-server-add</ph><ph outputclass="db.manvolnum">1</ph>
</cite> or <cite outputclass="db.citerefentry">
<ph outputclass="db.refentrytitle">couchbase-cli-failover</ph><ph outputclass="db.manvolnum">1</ph>
</cite>
subcommands ensure that you run the rebalance command to balance data and indexes
across the cluster.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">OPTIONS</title>
      
      
      <dl outputclass="db.variablelist">
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-c
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the hostname of a node in the cluster. See the HOST FORMATS
        section for more information on specifying a hostname.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-u
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--user &lt;username&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the username of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-p
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error. If this argument is specified, but no password is
        given then the command will prompt the user for a password through
        non-echoed stdin. You may also specify your password by using the
        environment variable CB_REST_PASSWORD.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--server-remove &lt;servers&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        A comma separated list of nodes to remove from the cluster. Each node
        in the list should correspond to the hostname or IP address of that
        server. The port number :8091 is not required after any of the IP addresses but can be used.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--no-progress-bar
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Hides the progress bar which tracks the progress of the
        rebalance. This command will still wait for rebalance completion even if
        this flag is specified, but the progress bar will not be shown.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--no-wait
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies that this command should not wait for the completion of rebalance
        before exiting.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">HOST FORMATS</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">When specifying a host for the couchbase-cli command the following formats are expected:</p>
        <ul outputclass="db.itemizedlist">
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">couchbase://&lt;addr&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">http://&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
        </ul>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">It is recommended to use the couchbase://&lt;addr&gt; format for standard
installations. The other two formats allow an option to take a port number which
is needed for non-default installations where the admin port has been set up on
a port other that 8091.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">EXAMPLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">To rebalance a new node into the cluster you would first add a node using
the <cite outputclass="db.citerefentry">
<ph outputclass="db.refentrytitle">couchbase-cli-server-add</ph><ph outputclass="db.manvolnum">1</ph>
</cite> command and then start the rebalance
with the rebalance command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli server-add -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
 --password password --server-add 192.168.1.6:8091 \
 --server-add-username Administrator --server-add-password password</pre>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli rebalance -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
 --password password</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">If you just want to remove a node from the cluster and start a rebalance,
just run the rebalance command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli rebalance -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
 --password password --server-remove 192.168.1.6:8091</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">You can remove multiple nodes at once and run the rebalance with the
command below. Note that it will be faster overall removing multiple nodes
at once as opposed to removing them one at a time.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli rebalance -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
 --password password --server-remove 192.168.1.6:8091,192.168.1.7:8091</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To add a node and remove another node you need to run the
<cite outputclass="db.citerefentry">
<ph outputclass="db.refentrytitle">couchbase-cli-server-add</ph><ph outputclass="db.manvolnum">1</ph>
</cite> command before starting the rebalance,
as shown below.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli server-add -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
 --password password --server-add 192.168.1.6:8091 \
 --server-add-username Administrator --server-add-password password</pre>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli rebalance -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
 --password password --server-remove 192.168.1.7:8091</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">If you add one node to the cluster and remove a node during the same
rebalance, Couchbase Server will do a "swap rebalance". This means data and
indexes from the node being removed are moved to the one being added. This
means the rebalance will only occur between these two nodes as
opposed to involving all nodes in the cluster.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line. It also allows the user to ensure that their
        password are not cached in their command line history.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line.</p>
      </section></body>
    <related-links><link href="couchbase-cli-failover.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-recovery.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-server-add.dita" /></related-links></topic>
</dita>
