<?xml version="1.0" standalone="no"?><!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "../../../../dtd/ditabase.dtd"><dita>
  <topic id="couchbaseclifailover1.idm513894823760" outputclass="db.article" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title outputclass="db.title">couchbase-cli-failover</title>
    
    <shortdesc>Failover a server in the cluster</shortdesc><prolog>
      
      
      
      
      
      
      <metadata>
        
        
        
        
      </metadata>
      
    </prolog>
    <body outputclass="db.article" />
    <topic id="_synopsis" outputclass="db.section" xml:lang="en-us">
      <title outputclass="db.title">SYNTAX</title>
      
      
      <body outputclass="db.section">
        <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"><i outputclass="db.emphasis">couchbase-cli failover</i> [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--username &lt;user&gt;] [--password &lt;password&gt;][--server-failover &lt;server_list&gt;] [--force] [--no-progress-bar] [--no-wait]</codeblock></body>
      
    </topic>
    <topic id="_description" outputclass="db.section" xml:lang="en-us">
      <title outputclass="db.title">DESCRIPTION</title>
      
      
      <body outputclass="db.section">
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">This command fails over one or more servers. Servers can be either hard failed
over or gracefully failed over. A hard failover means that the failover happens
immediately, but risk potential data loss. Graceful failover ensures that
replication is up to date before the server is failed over so that there is no
data loss, but the failover is not immediate. Using the --force flag means that
the failover should be a hard failover. If the --force flag is not specified
then the failover will be graceful. Note that if a server is already down you
must hard fail it over.</p>
      </body>
      
    </topic>
    <topic id="_options" outputclass="db.section" xml:lang="en-us">
      <title outputclass="db.title">OPTIONS</title>
      
      
      <body outputclass="db.section">
        <dl outputclass="db.variablelist">
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-c
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specfies the hostname of a node in the cluster. See the HOST FORMATS
        section for more information on specifying a hostname.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-u
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--user &lt;username&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the username of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permision to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-p
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permision to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error. If this argument is specified, but no password is
        given then the command will prompt the user for a password through
        non-echoed stdin. You may also specify your password by using the
        environment variable CB_REST_PASSWORD.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--server-failover &lt;server_list&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        A comma separated list of servers to failover.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--force
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifying this flag signifies that the nodes to be failed over should be
        hard failed over. A hard failover means that the failover is immediate, but
        you risk potential data loss. If this flag is not specified then the
        failover will occur only once replication is up to date. This means there
        will be no data loss, but the failover is not immediate. Note that if a
        server is already down you must hard fail it over.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--no-progress-bar
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Disables showing the progress bar which tracks the progress of the
        rebalance. Note that a rebalance only occurs for graceful failovers (eg.
        non-forced failovers). The failover command will still wait for rebalance
        completion even if this flag is specified, but the progress bar will not
        be shown.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--no-wait
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies that this command should not wait for the completion of rebalance
        before exiting. Note that a rebalance only occurs for graceful failovers
        (eg. non-forced failovers).
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </body>
      
    </topic>
    <topic id="_host_formats" outputclass="db.section" xml:lang="en-us">
      <title outputclass="db.title">HOST FORMATS</title>
      
      
      <body outputclass="db.section">
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">When specifying a host for the couchbase-cli command the following formats are expected:</p>
        <ul outputclass="db.itemizedlist">
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">couchbase://&lt;addr&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">http://&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
        </ul>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">It is recommended to use the couchbase://&lt;addr&gt; format for standard
installations. The other two formats allow an option to take a port number which
is needed for non-default installations where the admin port has been set up on
a port other that 8091.</p>
      </body>
      
    </topic>
    <topic id="_examples" outputclass="db.section" xml:lang="en-us">
      <title outputclass="db.title">EXAMPLES</title>
      
      
      <body outputclass="db.section">
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To hard fail over a server run the following command:</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli failover -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
 --password password --server-failover 192.168.1.6:8091 --force</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To gracefully failover a server run the following command:</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli failover -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
 --password password --server-failover 192.168.1.6:8091</pre>
      </body>
      
    </topic>
    <topic id="_environment_and_configuration_variables" outputclass="db.section" xml:lang="en-us">
      <title outputclass="db.title">ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES</title>
      
      
      <body outputclass="db.section">
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line. It also allows the user to ensure that their
        password are not cached in their command line history.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line.</p>
      </body>
      
    <related-links><link href="couchbase-cli-rebalance.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-recovery.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-server-add.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-setting-autofailover.dita" /></related-links></topic>
    </topic>
</dita>