<?xml version="1.0" standalone="no"?><!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "../../../../dtd/ditabase.dtd"><dita>
  <topic id="couchbaseclisettingldap1.idm59493664" outputclass="db.article" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title outputclass="db.title">setting-ldap</title>
    
    <shortdesc>Modifies LDAP settings</shortdesc><body outputclass="db.article"><section><title outputclass="db.title">SYNTAX</title>
      
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"><i outputclass="db.emphasis">couchbase-cli setting-ldap</i> [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--username &lt;user&gt;]
          [--password &lt;password&gt;] [--ldap-admins &lt;admins_list&gt;]
          [--ldap-roadmins &lt;ro_admin_list&gt;] [--ldap-default &lt;default&gt;]
          [--ldap-enable &lt;num&gt;]</codeblock></section><section><title outputclass="db.title">DESCRIPTION</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">This command allows users to enable LDAP on their cluster as well as add
administrator and read-only administrator LDAP users to their cluster.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">OPTIONS</title>
      
      
      <dl outputclass="db.variablelist">
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-c
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the hostname of a node in the cluster. See the HOST FORMATS
        section for more information on specifying a hostname.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-u
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--user &lt;username&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the username of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-p
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error. If this argument is specified, but no password is
        given then the command will prompt the user for a password through
        non-echoed stdin. You may also specify your password by using the
        environment variable CB_REST_PASSWORD.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--ldap-admins &lt;admins_list&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        A list of LDAP users who should have administrator privileges on this
        cluster. This list should be comma separated if multiple users are being
        added.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--ldap-roadmins &lt;ro_admin_list&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        A list of LDAP users who should have read-only administrator privileges on
        this cluster. This list should be comma separated if multiple users are
        being added.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--ldap-enabled &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Enables or disables LDAP on this cluster. To enable LDAP set this option to
        "1". To disable LDAP set this parameter to "0".
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--ldap-default &lt;default&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the default role for LDAP users who have not been explicitly been
        added to the cluster. This option may be set to "admins", "ro_admins", or
        "none". If this option is set to "admins" then all LDAP users not explicitly
        add to this cluster have administrator privileges. If this option is set to
        "roadmins" then all LDAP users not explicitly add to this cluster have
        read-only administrator privileges. If this option is set to "none" then all
        LDAP users not explicitly add to this cluster will have no access. This
        option default to "none".
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">HOST FORMATS</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">When specifying a host for the couchbase-cli command the following formats are expected:</p>
        <ul outputclass="db.itemizedlist">
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">couchbase://&lt;addr&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">http://&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
        </ul>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">It is recommended to use the couchbase://&lt;addr&gt; format for standard
installations. The other two formats allow an option to take a port number which
is needed for non-default installations where the admin port has been set up on
a port other that 8091.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">EXAMPLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">To enable LDAP on a cluster run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli setting-ldap -c 192.168.1.5 --username Administrator \
 --password password --enable-ldap 1</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To add users alice and barry as Administrators and users clair and daniel as
Read-Only Administrators run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli setting-ldap -c 192.168.1.5 --username Administrator \
 --password password --enable-ldap 1 --ldap-admins alice,barry \
 --ldap-ro-admins clair,daniel</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To enable LDAP and allow all LDAP users to have Amdinistrator access run the
following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli setting-ldap -c 192.168.1.5 --username Administrator \
 --password password --enable-ldap 1 --ldap-default admins</pre>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line. It also allows the user to ensure that their
        password are not cached in their command line history.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line.</p>
      </section></body>
    <related-links><link href="couchbase-cli-admin-role-manage.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-user-manage.dita" /></related-links></topic>
</dita>