<?xml version="1.0" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "../../../../dtd/ditabase.dtd"><dita>
  <topic id="couchbaseclixdcrsetup1.idm89713664" outputclass="db.article" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title outputclass="db.title">xdcr-setup</title>
    
    <shortdesc>Manage references to remote clusters</shortdesc><body outputclass="db.article"><section><title outputclass="db.title">SYNTAX</title>
      
      
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"><i outputclass="db.emphasis">couchbase-cli xdcr-setup</i> [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--username &lt;user&gt;]
          [--password &lt;password&gt;] [--create] [--delete] [--edit] [--list]
          [--xdcr-cluster-name &lt;name&gt;] [--xdcr-hostname &lt;hostname&gt;]
          [--xdcr-username &lt;username&gt;] [--xdcr-password &lt;password&gt;]
          [--xdcr-demand-encryption &lt;num&gt;] [--xdcr-encryption-type &lt;type&gt;]
          [--xdcr-certificate &lt;file&gt;]</codeblock></section><section><title outputclass="db.title">DESCRIPTION</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">This command is used to manage the remote clusters that are available to be
replicated to.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">OPTIONS</title>
      
      
      <dl outputclass="db.variablelist">
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-c
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--cluster
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the hostname of a node in the cluster. See the HOST FORMATS
        section for more information on specifying a hostname.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-u
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--user &lt;username&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the username of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
-p
</dt>
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. If you do not have
        a user account with permission to execute the command then it will fail with
        an unauthorized error. If this argument is specified, but no password is
        given then the command will prompt the user for a password through
        non-echoed stdin. You may also specify your password by using the
        environment variable CB_REST_PASSWORD.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--create
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Creates an new XDCR remote reference.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--delete
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Deletes an XDCR remote reference.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--edit
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Edits an XDCR remote reference.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--list
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        List all XDCR remote references.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--xdcr-cluster-name &lt;name&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The name for the remote cluster reference.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--xdcr-hostname &lt;hostname&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The hostname of the remote cluster reference.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--xdcr-username &lt;username&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The username of the remote cluster reference.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--xdcr-password &lt;password&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The password of the remote cluster reference.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--xdcr-demand-encryption &lt;num&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Enable SSL when replicating with this cluster. To enable SSL set the value
        of this otion to 1. To disable SSL then set this option to 0. BY default the
        value of this option is set to 0.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--xdcr-encryption-type &lt;type&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        Specifies the type of encryption to use if encryption is enabled. This flag
        may either be set to "half" encryption or "full encryption". Half encryption
        means that passwords are encrypted, but data is not. This results in faster
        data transfer, but less security. Full encryption means that all data and
        passwords are encrypted which increases security, but reduces overall data
        transfer speed. This flag does not have any affect if encryption is not
        enabled. If encryption is enabled and this flag is set then the value
        defaults to full encryption.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry outputclass="db.varlistentry">
            <dt outputclass="db.term">
--xdcr-certificate &lt;file&gt;
</dt>
            <dd outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
        The path to the certificate used for encryption.
</p>
</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">HOST FORMATS</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">When specifying a host for the couchbase-cli command the following formats are expected:</p>
        <ul outputclass="db.itemizedlist">
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">couchbase://&lt;addr&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
          <li outputclass="db.listitem">
<p outputclass="db.simpara">
<codeph outputclass="db.literal">http://&lt;addr&gt;:&lt;port&gt;</codeph>
</p>
</li>
        </ul>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">It is recommended to use the couchbase://&lt;addr&gt; format for standard
installations. The other two formats allow an option to take a port number which
is needed for non-default installations where the admin port has been set up on
a port other that 8091.</p>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">EXAMPLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">To create a new remote reference to a Couchbase cluster named "east" run the
following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli xdcr-setup -c 192.168.1.5 -u Administrator \
 -p password --create --xdcr-cluster-name east --xdcr-hostname 192.168.1.6
 --xdcr-username Administrator --xdcr-password password</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">If the new remote reference should always be encrypted then make sure to enable
encryption.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli xdcr-setup -c 192.168.1.5 -u Administrator \
 -p password --create --xdcr-cluster-name east --xdcr-hostname 192.168.1.6 \
 --xdcr-username Administrator --xdcr-password password \
 --xdcr-demand-encryption 1 --xdcr-certificate /root/cluster.cert</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">To list all current XDCR cluster references run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli xdcr-setup -c 192.168.1.5 -u Administrator \
 -p password --list</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">If you need to edit a cluster references named "east" and change the password
run the following command.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli xdcr-setup -c 192.168.1.5 -u Administrator \
 -p password --edit --xdcr-cluster-name east --xdcr-hostname 192.168.1.6
 --xdcr-username Administrator --xdcr-password new_password</pre>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">Note in the above example that you need to specify all of the current unchanging
configuration parameters also to avoid them being reset to defaults.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">If you no longer need an XDCR remote reference then you can delete it. We should
this below using the "east" remote reference as an exmaple.</p>
        <pre outputclass="db.literallayout">$ couchbase-cli xdcr-setup -c 192.168.1.5 -u Administrator \
 -p password --delete --xdcr-cluster-name east</pre>
      </section><section><title outputclass="db.title">ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES</title>
      
      
      <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line. It also allows the user to ensure that their
        password are not cached in their command line history.</p>
        <p outputclass="db.simpara">CB_REST_PASSWORD
        Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment
        variable allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password
        argument on the command line.</p>
      </section></body>
    <related-links><link href="couchbase-cli-setting-xdcr.dita" /><link href="couchbase-cli-xdcr-replicate.dita" /></related-links></topic>
</dita>