<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="cli-failover">
  <title><cmdname>failover</cmdname></title>
  <shortdesc>Fails over one or more servers.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <p>The basic syntax is:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli failover -c [host]:8091 -u [admin] -p [password] [options]</codeblock>
      
    </section> 
    <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>Nodes are failed over with one of the following methods:
      <ul>
        <li><xref href="../../clustersetup/setup-failover-graceful.dita#topic_ysk_ycm_zs"/></li>
        <li><xref href="../../clustersetup/hard-failover.dita">Hard failover</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="../../clustersetup/automatic-failover.dita">Automatic failover</xref></li>
      </ul></p>
      
      <p><term>Graceful failover</term> (the default) safely fails over nodes from clusters by
        allowing all in-flight operations to complete before implementing the failover operation.
        Graceful failover is the default behavior for the <cmdname>failover</cmdname> operation.</p>

      <p><term>Hard failover</term> immediately fails over nodes from clusters and is typically used
        when the node is in a bad state. Auto-failover is a hard failover. </p>
      
      
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Options</title>
      <p>The following are the command options:</p>
      <table><title>failover options</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.04*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Option</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--server-failover=HOST:PORT</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The server which will be failed over.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--force</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Fail over a node from the cluster right away. Use the <codeph>--force</codeph>
                option to perform hard failover.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      
    </section>
    
    

      
      <section>
      <title>Examples</title>
      <p>The following examples show the failover, re-add, recovery and rebalance sequence
        operations. Nodes in a cluster are gracefully failed over, a node is re-added to a cluster,
        a delta recovery is implemented for the node, and rebalance is performed on the cluster:</p>
   <codeblock> couchbase-cli failover -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password \
--server-failover=192.168.0.2 </codeblock>	
   <codeblock>couchbase-cli server-readd -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password \
--server-add=192.168.0.2 	</codeblock>
  <codeblock>couchbase-cli recovery -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password \
--server-recovery=192.168.0.2 --recovery-type=delta 	</codeblock>
  <codeblock>couchbase-cli rebalance -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password \</codeblock>
      <p>The following example shows a node failing over immediately: a hard failover is implemented
        rather than a graceful failover.</p>
        <codeblock>couchbase-cli failover -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password \
--server-failover=192.168.0.2 --force      </codeblock>
    </section>
   
    
  </refbody>
  <related-links>
    <link href="../../clustersetup/failover.dita#topic_nzk_yln_vs"/>
  </related-links>
</reference>
