<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="cbcli-rza">
   <title><cmdname>group-manage</cmdname></title>
   <shortdesc>Rack-Zone Awareness with its server group capability is available only in  Couchbase
      Server Enterprise Edition.</shortdesc>


   <refbody>
      <section><title>Syntax</title>
         <p>The basic syntax is:</p>
         
         <codeblock>couchbase-cli group-manage -c [host]:8091 -u [admin] -p [password] [options]  </codeblock>
      </section>
      
      <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>To configure servers into groups, use the <cmdname>group-manage</cmdname> command.</p>
         <p>The <xref
               href="../../architecture/smart-data-placement-rack-zone-aware.dita#concept_bln_cnv_vs"
               >Rack-Zone Awareness</xref> feature provides the ability to specify that active and
            corresponding replica partitions be created on servers that are part of a separate rack
            or zone. It enables logical groupings of servers on a cluster where each server group
            physically belongs to a rack or Availability Zone.</p>

      
      </section>
      
      <section><title>Options</title>
         <p>The following are the command options:</p>
         <table>
            <title>group-manage options</title>
            <tgroup cols="2">
               <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1.7*"/>
               <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1*"/>
               <thead>
                  <row>
                     <entry>Option</entry>
                     <entry>Description</entry>
                  </row>
               </thead>
               <tbody>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>--create</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Create a new group.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>--delete</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Deletes an empty group.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>--list</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Show the group/server relationship map.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>--group-name=GROUPNAME</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Group name.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>--index-storage-setting=SETTING</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Index storage type [default, memopt]</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>--move-servers=Host[:PORT],HOST[:PORT]</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Move a list of servers from a group.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>--rename=NEWGROUPNAME</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Renames an existing group.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>--services=data,index,query</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Services that the server runs.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>--add-servers=HOST [:PORT],HOST[:PORT]</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>Adds servers to a group.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>--from-group=GROUPNAME</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>The name of the group from which you are removing the servers.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry><codeph>--to-group=GROUPNAME</codeph></entry>
                     <entry>The name of the group from to which you are adding the servers.</entry>
                  </row>
               </tbody>
            </tgroup>
         </table>

      </section>
      
   
      
      <section><title>Examples</title><p>A server group is created:</p><note type="note">The command
            using the <codeph>-create --group-name</codeph> options can fail when an exclamation (!)
            is present inside the group name.
         </note><codeblock>couchbase-cli group-manage -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u myAdminName -p myAdminPassword \
--create --group-name=myGroupName</codeblock>Two
         servers are added to a server group using the <codeph>group-manage</codeph> command.
            <codeblock>couchbase-cli group-manage -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u myAdminName -p myAdminPassword \
--group-name=myNewGroup --add-servers="10.1.1.1:8091;10.1.1.2:8091" </codeblock><p>A
            server is added to the server group using the <codeph>server-add</codeph> command.
            </p><note type="note">The <cmdname>group-manage</cmdname> command is the preferred
            method for adding servers to a server group. </note><p>One server with both the data and
            query services enabled is added to a server group using the
               <codeph>group-manage</codeph>
            command.</p><codeblock>couchbase-cli group-manage -c 192.168.0.1:8091 \ 
-u myAdminName -p myAdminPassword --group-name=myNewGroup \
--create --add-servers=10.1.1.1:8091 --services=data,query</codeblock><p>Two
            servers are moved from one server group to another using the
               <codeph>group-manage</codeph>
         command.</p><codeblock>couchbase-cli group-manage -c 192.168.0.1:8091 \ 
-u myAdminName -p myAdminPassword --from-group=myFirstGroup \
--to-group=mySecondGroup --move-servers="10.1.1.1:8091;10.1.1.2:8091"</codeblock></section>
   
   </refbody>
</reference>
