<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_hl3_v2v_sq">
  <title><cmdname>rebalance</cmdname></title>
  <shortdesc>Starts cluster rebalancing.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>

    
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <p>The basic syntax is:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli rebalance -c [host]:8091 -u [admin] -p [password] 
    --server-add=[host]:8091 
    --server-add-username=[Administrator] 
    --server-add-password=[password]
    --server-remove=[host]:[port]     </codeblock>
    </section> 
    
    <section>
      <title>Description</title>
      <p>The typical command used to add a node to a cluster is the <cmdname>server-add</cmdname>
        command. However, a node can also be added to a cluster when executing the
          <cmdname>rebalance</cmdname> command.</p>
      <note type="note">Once a server has been successfully added, the Couchbase Server cluster
        indicates that a rebalance is required to complete the operation.</note>
      <p>You can cancel the addition of a node to a cluster without rebalancing. Canceling the
        operation removes the server from the cluster without transferring or exchanging any data
        since no rebalance operation took place. You can cancel rebalancing using the Couchbase Web
        Console. </p>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Options</title>
      <p>The following are the command options:</p>
      
      <table><title>rebalance options</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1.23*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Parameter</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--server-add=[host]:[port]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Server to be added</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--server-add-username=[username]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Administrator username to add the server.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--server-add-password=[password]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Administrator password to add the server.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--server-remove=[host]:[port]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The server to be removed.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>

    </section>
    
   
    <section><title>Examples </title>
      <p>Removes a node from a cluster and rebalances:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli rebalance -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password 
    --server-remove=192.168.0.2:8091</codeblock>
   
   
  
      
      
      <p>Adds a node to a cluster and rebalances:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli rebalance -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password  
    --server-add=192.168.0.2:8091 
    --server-add-username=Administrator 
    --server-add-password=password</codeblock>
    
      
      <p>Removes and adds nodes from/to a cluster and rebalances:</p>
      
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli rebalance -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password  
    --server-remove=192.168.0.2 
    --server-add=192.168.0.4 
    --server-add-username=Administrator 
    --server-add-password=password</codeblock>
   
    
    </section>

    
  </refbody>
</reference>
