<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="cbcli-reset-admin-password">
  <title><cmdname>reset-admin-password</cmdname></title>
  <shortdesc>Resets the Couchbase administrator password. This command replaces the
      <codeph>cbreset_password</codeph> tool.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <p>The basic syntax is:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"><![CDATA[couchbase-cli reset-admin-password [--cluster <url>] [--regenerate] [--new-password <password>]]]></codeblock>
    </section>

    <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>This command is used to reset the built-in Couchbase Server Administrator password. There
        is only one built-in Administrator account, which is managed separately from External
        Administrator users. The built-in Read-only Administrator account can be managed using the
          <xref href="user-manage.dita">user-manage</xref> command. External Administrator accounts
        (via LDAP) can be managed using the admin-role-manage command.</p>
      <p>The <codeph>reset-admin-password</codeph> command must be run locally on a node that is
        part of the cluster (i.e. must connect to the host which the command is run on). This is
        required as <codeph>reset-admin-password</codeph> relies on a local authentication token,
        which is used to authenticate with the server and change the password. As a result, the
        command does not require credentials to be passed.</p></section>

    <section><title>Options</title>
      <p>The following are the command options:</p>
      <table>
        <title>reset-admin-password options</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.76*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Option</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--new-password=PASSWORD</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Sets the password for the Couchbase Server administrator user to the value
                specified by the argument. If no password is specified, the command prompts the user
                for the new password through non-echoed stdin.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--regenerate</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Sets the password for the Couchbase Server administrator user to a randomly
                generated value. The new password is printed to the command line after the password
                is changed.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>

    <section><title>Examples</title>
      <p>To change the administrator password to 'new_pwd' run the following command:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ couchbase-cli reset-admin-password -c localhost:8091 --new-password new_pwd</codeblock><p>To
        change the administrator password to a randomly generated value, run the following command.
        The new password will be printed to stdout if the password is successfully changed:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ couchbase-cli reset-admin-password -c localhost:8091 --regenerate
  jXjNW6LG</codeblock>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
