<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="cli-index">
  <title><cmdname>server-add</cmdname></title>
 <shortdesc>Adds one or more servers to a cluster.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <p>The basic syntax is:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli server-add -c [host]:8091 -u [admin] -p [password] [options]</codeblock>
    </section> <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>Couchbase Server services are enabled when you add a node to a cluster and specify its services. </p>
      <p>The typical command used to add a node to a cluster is the <cmdname>server-add</cmdname>
        command. However, a node can also be added to a cluster when executing the
          <cmdname>rebalance</cmdname> command.</p>
      <note type="note">Once a server has been successfully added, the Couchbase Server cluster indicates 
        that a rebalance is required to complete the operation.</note>
      <p>You can cancel the addition of a node to a cluster without rebalancing. Canceling the
        operation removes the server from the cluster without transferring or exchanging any data
        since no rebalance operation took place. Cancel the operation using the Couchbase Web
        Console. </p>
      
      <note type="attention">Couchbase Server services can only be enabled via the CLI when adding a server
        to an existing cluster. </note>
      
      
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>Options</title>
      <p>The following are the command options:</p>
      <table><title>server-add options</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.91*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Parameter</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--server-add=HOST [:PORT]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The server that is added.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--server-add-username=USERNAME</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Administrator name to add the server.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--server-add-password=PASSWORD</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Administrator password to add the server.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--group-name=GROUPNAME</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The name of the group to which the server is added.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>index-storage-setting=SETTING</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Index storage type [default, memopt].</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--services=data,index,query</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Services that run on the server. To specify multiple services, separate the
                service with a comma. <p>For example,
                  <codeph>--services=data,index</codeph>.</p><p>Couchbase's services are specified
                  only when a server is added to the cluster. For a production environment, specify
                  only one service per node. However, for the development environment, more than one
                  service can be enabled on a single node. </p></entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
     
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>Examples</title>
      
      
      <p><b>Example 1:</b></p>
      <p>Adds a node to a cluster but does not rebalance:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli server-add -c 192.168.0.1:8091 \ 
--server-add=192.168.0.2:8091 --server-add-username=Administrator \ 
--server-add-password=password --services=data</codeblock>
      
      <p><b>Example 2:</b></p>
      <p>Adds a node to a cluster and specifies the index and query services. If a Couchbase Server service
        is not provided, the default (data service) is enabled.</p>
      <p><b>Request</b></p>
     
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli server-add -c 10.3.2.204:8091 -u Administrator -p password \
--server-add=10.3.4.246:8091 --server-add-username=Administrator \ 
--server-add-password=password --services=data,index   </codeblock>
   <p><b>Response</b></p>
    <p>Request example response:</p>
    <codeblock>SUCCESS: server-add 10.3.4.246:8091</codeblock>
   
    
    
      <p><b>Example 3:</b></p>
      <p>If the <codeph>--group-name</codeph> option is not specified with the
          <codeph>server-add</codeph> command, the server is added to the default group. </p><codeblock>couchbase-cli server-add -c 192.168.0.1:8091 \
--server-add=192.168.0.2:8091 --server-add-username=Administrator \
--server-add-password=password --group-name=groupName</codeblock>
    </section>
   
      
  </refbody>
</reference>
