<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="setting_password_policy">
  
  <title>
    <cmdname>setting-password-policy</cmdname>
  </title>
  
  <shortdesc>
    Returns and modifies the password-policy.
  </shortdesc>
  
  <refbody>
    
    <section>
      
      <title>
        Syntax
      </title>
      
      <p>
        The basic syntax is:
      </p>
      
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli setting-password-policy [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--username &lt;user&gt;]
        [--password &lt;password&gt;] [--output &lt;output&gt;] [--debug] [--ssl]
        [--no-ssl-verify] [--cacert] [--help] [--get] [--set] [--min-length &lt;num&gt;] 
        [--uppercase] [--lowercase] [--digit] [--special-char]</codeblock>
      
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>Description
      </title>
      
      <p>
        This command allows administrators to get and set the current password-policy for
        Couchbase Server. 
      </p>
      
    </section> 
    
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Cluster Options
      </title>
      
      <p>
        The following are the cluster options:
      </p> 
      
      <table>
        <title>Cluster Options</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.76"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Option</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--cluster &lt;cluster&gt;</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The hostname of the Couchbase cluster.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--username &lt;username&gt;</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The username for the Couchbase cluster.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--password &lt;password&gt;</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The password for the Couchbase cluster.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--output &lt;output&gt;</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The output type (json or standard).</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--debug</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Run the command with extra logging.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--ssl</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Use SSL when connecting to Couchbase (deprecated).</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--nol-ssl-verify</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Skips SSL verification of certificates against the CA.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--cacert &lt;cacert&gt;</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Verifies the cluster identity with this certificate.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--help</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Prints the short or long help message.</entry>
            </row>
            
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table> 
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Password-Policy Settings
      </title>
      
      <p>
        The following are the password-policy settings:
      </p> 
      
      <table>
        <title>Password-Policy Settings</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.76"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Option</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--get</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Get the current pasword-policy.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--set</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Set a new password-policy.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--min-length &lt;num&gt;</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Specifies the minimum password-length for new passwords. The
                specified number must be in the range of 0 to 100. The default value
                is 6.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--uppercase</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Specifies that new passwords must contain an uppercase character.
                The default is that they need not.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--lowercase</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Specifies that new passwords must contain a lowercase character.
                The default is that they need not.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--digit</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Specifies that new passwords must contain at least one digit.
                The default is that they need not.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--special-char</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Specifies that new passwords must contain at least one special character.
                The default is that they need not.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table> 
    </section>
    
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Examples
      </title>
      
      <p>
        The following returns the current password-policy:
      </p>
      
      <codeblock>$ ./couchbase-cli setting-password-policy --cluster http://localhost:8091 --username Administrator --password T(3pwd? --get
        {
        "enforceDigits": false, 
        "enforceLowercase": false, 
        "enforceSpecialChars": false, 
        "enforceUppercase": false, 
        "minLength": 6
        }
        $</codeblock>   
      
      <p>
        The following sets a new password-policy, specifying that minimum length should be
        9, and that at least one digit, lowercase character, uppercase character, and special
        character should be used. The operation's success is then verified by a further call,
        using the <codeph>--get</codeph> parameter.
      </p>
      
      <codeblock>$ ./couchbase-cli setting-password-policy --cluster http://localhost:8091 --username Administrator --password T(3pwd? --set --min-length 9 --uppercase --lowercase --digit --special-char
        SUCCESS: Password policy updated
        $ ./couchbase-cli setting-password-policy --cluster http://localhost:8091 --username Administrator --password T(3pwd? --get
        {
        "enforceDigits": true, 
        "enforceLowercase": true, 
        "enforceSpecialChars": true, 
        "enforceUppercase": true, 
        "minLength": 9
        }
        $</codeblock>
      
    </section>
    
  </refbody>
</reference>
