<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_z4y_kp5_ls">
  <title><cmdname>setting-compaction</cmdname></title>
  <shortdesc>Set the auto compaction settings. </shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <title>Syntax</title>
      <p>The basic syntax is:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli setting-compaction -c [host]:8091 -u [admin] -p [password] [options]</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Description</title>
      <p> Use this command to set variuous options for auto compaction.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Options</title>
      <p>The following are the command options:</p>
      <table>
        <title>Data/view compaction options</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1.02*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Options</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--compaction-db-percentage=PERC</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Starts data compaction once data file fragmentation has reached this
                percentage.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--compaction-db-size=SIZE[MB]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Starts data compaction once data file fragmentation has reached this
                size.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--compaction-view-percentage=PERC</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Starts view compaction once view file fragmentation has reached this
                percentage.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--compaction-view-size=SIZE[MB]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Starts view compaction once view file fragmentation has reached this
                size.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--compaction-period-from=HH:MM</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Allow compaction to run after this time.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--compaction-period-to=HH:MM</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Allow compaction to run before this time.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--enable-compaction-abort=[0|1]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Abort compaction if running outside of the accepted interval (yes=1,
                no=0).</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--enable-compaction-parallel=[0|1]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Allow view and data file compaction at the same time (yes=1, no=0). </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    <table>
      <title>Global secondary index compaction options</title>
      <tgroup cols="2">
        <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1.02*"/>
        <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1*"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Options</entry>
            <entry>Description</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>--gsi-compaction-mode=[append|circular]</codeph></entry>
            <entry>Sets the gsi compaction mode.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>--compaction-gsi-percentage=PERC</codeph></entry>
            <entry>Starts compaction once gsi file fragmentation has reached this percentage (Append
              mode only).</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>--compaction-gsi-interval</codeph></entry>
            <entry>A comma separated list of days compaction can run (Circular mode only).</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>--compaction-gsi-period-from=HH:MM</codeph></entry>
            <entry>Allow gsi compaction to run after this time (Circular mode only).</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>--compaction-period-from=HH:MM</codeph></entry>
            <entry>Allow gsi compaction to run before this time (Circular mode only).</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>--compaction-gsi-period-to=HH:MM</codeph></entry>
            <entry>Allow compaction to run before this time.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>--enable-gsi-compaction-abort=[0|1]</codeph></entry>
            <entry>Abort gsi compaction if when run outside of the accepted interaval (Circular mode
              only).</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
    <section>
      <title>Examples</title>
      <p>Enable auto compaction starting at 10:00 and finishing at 14:00.</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli setting-cluster -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password \
--compaction-period-from=10:00 --compaction-period-to=14:00</codeblock>
    </section>
  </refbody>
  <related-links>
    <link href="../../architecture/compaction.dita#concept_bl2_b4v_vs"/>
  </related-links>
</reference>
