<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="couchbase_cli_user_manage">
  
  <title>
    <cmdname>user-manage</cmdname>
  </title>
  
  <shortdesc> CLI command used to assign RBAC roles to users. </shortdesc>
  
  <refbody>
    
    <section>
      
      <title>
        Syntax
      </title>
      
      <p>The basic syntax is: </p>
      
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli user-manage [--cluster &lt;url&gt;] [--username &lt;user&gt;] [--password &lt;password&gt;] [--delete] [--list] [--my-roles] [--set] [--rbac-username &lt;username&gt;] [--rbac-password &lt;password&gt;] [--rbac-name &lt;name&gt;] [--roles &lt;roles_list&gt;] [--auth_type &lt;type&gt;]</codeblock>
    
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>Description</title>
      
      <p>This command allows administrators to assign and manage roles to different users in their
        organization. Users can either be managed locally by Couchbase or managed by an external
        source (such as LDAP or saslauthd). </p>
    
    </section> 
    
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Options
      </title>
      
      <p>The following are the command options: </p> 
      
      <table>
        <title>user-manage options</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="3*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Option</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--delete</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Deletes an RBAC user profile from the cluster. You must have full
                administrator privileges in order to delete a user profile.</entry>
            </row>
            
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--list</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Lists all RBAC user profiles in the cluster and show their roles. You must
                have full administrator privileges in order to list all user profiles.</entry>
            </row>
            
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--my-roles</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Shows the current user's RBAC user profile.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--set</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Creates or updates an RBAC user profile. You must have full administrator
                privileges in order to create or update a user profile.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--rbac-username &lt;username&gt;</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Specifies the username of the RBAC user to modify. This option is used when
                deleting, creating, or updating an RBAC user profile.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--rbac-password &lt;password&gt;</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Specifies the password to be used for an RBAC user profile. This option is used
                only when creating or updating a local RBAC user profile. Couchbase does not store
                password for external RBAC roles.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--rbac-name &lt;name&gt;</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Specifies the name to be used for an RBAC user profile. This option is used
                when creating or updating an RBAC user profile and it is recommended that
                this option be set to the user's full name.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--roles &lt;roles_list&gt;</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Specifies the roles to be given to an RBAC user profile. This option is used
                when creating or updating an RBAC user profile and it is specified as a
                comma separated list of roles. </entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--auth-domain &lt;type&gt;</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Specifies the authentication domain to used for an RBAC user profile. This option is used
                when deleting, creating or updating an RBAC user profile and it if may be
                set to either <parmname>'local'</parmname> or <parmname>'external'</parmname>. Local users are accounts that are
                managed directly by the Couchbase Server cluster. External users are users
                managed by an external source such as LDAP.</entry>
            </row>
            
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table> 
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Cluster-Wide Roles
      </title>
      
      <p>The following are <i>cluster-wide</i> roles: </p> 
      
      <table>
        <title>Cluster-Wide Roles</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="3*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Role-Name</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>admin</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Gives the user permissions to manage all Couchbase configuration settings,
                and read and write all data in the cluster. This user can make changes to
                anything in the cluster.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>bucket_admin[...]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Gives the user permissions to manage bucket settings. This role can be assigned
                globally to all buckets or to a particular bucket. For XDCR operations, the user can
                start/stop replication for the buckets they administer, but they cannot set up the
                XDCR cluster references. To give a user the ability to manage settings for all
                buckets, set their role to <codeph>bucket_admin[*]</codeph>. To give the user
                permission to manage bucket settings on a single bucket named 'default' then specify
                the role as <codeph>bucket_admin[default]</codeph>. If the user needs to be manage
                multiple buckets, for example 'default' and 'app', then set the role as
                  <codeph>bucket_admin[default,app]</codeph>.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>cluster_admin</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Gives the user permissions to read, write and manage all cluster-level
                settings except security.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>replication_admin</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Allows the user to configure XDCR topology and manage XDCR replications.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>ro_admin</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Gives the user read-only access which cannot make any changes to the system.
                This user has read-only access to cluster overview, design documents (without the
                ability to create or query views), bucket summaries (without the ability to create
                or view documents), XDCR cluster references, XDCR replications, and cluster
                settings.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>view_admin[...]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Gives the user privileges to define views and then run these views on data to
                ensure that views are defined properly. This applies both to the map-reduce and
                spatial views. To give a user the ability to manage views on all buckets set their
                role to <codeph>views_admin[*]</codeph>. To give the user permission to manage views
                on a single bucket named 'default' then specify the role as
                  <codeph>views_admin[default]</codeph>. If the user needs to be manage views for
                multiple buckets, for example 'default' and 'app', then set the role as
                  <codeph>views_admin[default,app]</codeph>.</entry>
            </row>   
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table> 
    </section>
    
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Data Service Roles
      </title>
      
      <p>The following are <i>data service</i> roles: </p> 
      
      <table>
        <title>Data Service Roles</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.76*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Role-Name</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>data_reader[...]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Gives the user permission to read data through Couchbases key-value APIs. To
                give a user read-only access for all buckets set their role to
                  <codeph>data_reader[*]</codeph>. To give the user read-only access to data on a
                single bucket named 'default' then specify their role as
                  <codeph>data_reader[default]</codeph>. If the user needs read-only access to data
                for multiple buckets, for example 'default' and 'app', then set their role as
                  <codeph>data_reader[default,app]</codeph>.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>data_reader_writer[...]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Gives the user permission to read and write data through Couchbases key-value
                APIs. The user cannot however modify the settings of a bucket. To give a user
                read-write access for all buckets set their role to
                  <codeph>data_reader_writer[*]</codeph>. To give the user read-write access to data
                on a single bucket named 'default' then specify their role as<codeph>
                  data_reader_writer[default]</codeph>. If the user needs read-write access to data
                for multiple buckets, for example 'default' and 'app', then set their role as
                  <codeph>data_reader_writer[default,app]</codeph>.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>data_dcp_reader[...]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Gives the user permission to create Couchbase Server DCP connections. To give a
                user the ability to create DCP connections for all buckets set their role to
                  <codeph>data_dcp_reader[*]</codeph>. To give the user the ability to create DCP
                connections on a single bucket named 'default' then specify their role as
                  <codeph>data_dcp_reader[default]</codeph>. If the user needs to be able to create
                DCP connections for multiple buckets, for example 'default' and 'app', then set
                their role as <codeph>data_dcp_reader[default,app]</codeph>.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>data_backup[...]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Gives the user permission to backup and restore data in Couchbase Server. To
                give a user the ability to backup and restore data for all buckets set their role to
                  <codeph>data_backup[*]</codeph>. To give the user the ability to backup and
                restore data on a single bucket named 'default' then specify their role as
                  <codeph>data_backup[default]</codeph>. If the user needs to be able to backup and
                restore data for multiple buckets, for example 'default' and 'app', then set their
                role as <codeph>data_backup[default,app]</codeph>.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>data_monitoring[...]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Gives the user permission to read monitoring data related to the data service
                in Couchbase Server. To give a user the ability to monitor data for all buckets set
                their role to <codeph>data_monitoring[*]</codeph>. To give the user the ability to
                monitor data on a single bucket named 'default' then specify their role as
                  <codeph>data_monitoring[default]</codeph>. If the user needs to be able to monitor
                data for multiple buckets, for example 'default' and 'app', then set their role as
                  <codeph>data_monitoring[default,app]</codeph>.</entry>
            </row>
            
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table> 
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Full-Text Service Roles
      </title>
      
      <p>The following are <i>full-text service</i> roles: </p> 
      
      <table>
        <title>Full-Text Service Roles</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.76*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Role-Name</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>fts_admin[...]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Gives the user full administrator access for the Full Text Indexing service for
                the specified buckets. To give a user full administrator access for FTS on all
                buckets set their role to <codeph>fts_admin[*]</codeph>. To give the user full
                administrator access for FTS on a single bucket named 'default' then specify their
                role as <codeph>fts_admin[default]</codeph>. If the user needs full administrator
                access for FTS for multiple buckets, for example 'default' and 'app', then set their
                role as <codeph>fts_admin[default,app]</codeph>.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>fts_searcher[...]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Allows the user to query full text indexes for the specified buckets. To give a
                user the ability to query full text indexes on all buckets set their role to
                  <codeph>fts_searcher[*]</codeph>. To give the ability to query FTS indexes on a
                single bucket named 'default' then specify their role as
                  <codeph>fts_searcher[default]</codeph>. If the user needs to query FTS indexes on
                multiple multiple buckets, for example 'default' and 'app', then set their role as
                  <codeph>fts_searcher[default,app]</codeph>.</entry>
            </row>    
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table> 
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Query Service Roles
      </title>
      
      <p>The following are <i>query service</i> roles: </p> 
      
      <table>
        <title>Query Service Roles</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.76*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Role-Name</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>manage_index[...]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Allows the user to create and delete indexes on the specified buckets. To give
                a user the ability to create and delete indexes on all buckets set their role to
                  <codeph>manage_index[*]</codeph>. To give the user permission to create and delete
                indexes on a single bucket named 'default' then specify their role as
                  <codeph>manage_index[default]</codeph>. If the user needs to be create and delete
                indexes for multiple buckets, for example 'default' and 'app', then set their role
                as <codeph>manage_index[default,app]</codeph>.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>query_delete[...]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Allows the user to execute <apiname>DELETE</apiname> query statements on the
                specified buckets. To give a user the ability execute <apiname>DELETE</apiname>
                statements on all buckets set their role to <codeph>query_delete[*]</codeph>. To
                give the user permission to execute <apiname>DELETE</apiname> statements on a single
                bucket named 'default' then specify their role as
                  <codeph>query_delete[default]</codeph>. If the user needs to be execute
                  <apiname>DELETE</apiname> statements for multiple buckets, for example 'default'
                and 'app', then set their role as
                <codeph>query_delete[default,app]</codeph>.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>query_insert[...]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Allows the user to execute <apiname>INSERT</apiname> query statements on the
                specified buckets. To give a user the ability execute <apiname>INSERT</apiname>
                statements on all buckets set their role to <codeph>query_insert[*]</codeph>. To
                give the user permission to execute <apiname>INSERT</apiname> statements on a single
                bucket named 'default' then specify their role as
                  <codeph>query_insert[default]</codeph>. If the user needs to be execute
                  <apiname>INSERT</apiname> statements for multiple buckets, for example 'default'
                and 'app', then set their role as
                <codeph>query_insert[default,app]</codeph>.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>query_select[...]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Allows the user to execute <apiname>SELECT</apiname> query statements on the
                specified buckets. To give a user the ability execute <apiname>SELECT</apiname>
                statements on all buckets set their role to <codeph>query_select[*]</codeph>. To
                give the user permission to execute <apiname>SELECT</apiname> statements on a single
                bucket named 'default' then specify their role as
                  <codeph>query_select[default]</codeph>. If the user needs to be execute
                  <apiname>SELECT</apiname> statements for multiple buckets, for example 'default'
                and 'app', then set their role as
                <codeph>query_select[default,app]</codeph>.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>query_update[...]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Allows the user to execute <apiname>UPDATE</apiname> query statements on the
                specified buckets. To give a user the ability execute <apiname>UPDATE</apiname>
                statements on all buckets set their role to <codeph>query_update[*]</codeph>. To
                give the user permission to execute <apiname>UPDATE</apiname> statements on a single
                bucket named 'default' then specify their role as
                  <codeph>query_update[default]</codeph>. If the user needs to be execute
                  <apiname>UPDATE</apiname> statements for multiple buckets, for example 'default'
                and 'app', then set their role as
                <codeph>query_update[default,app]</codeph>.</entry>
            </row>
            
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>system_catalog[...]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Allows the users to run queries against the system catalog on the specified
                buckets. To give a user the ability to run queries against the system catalog on all
                buckets set their role to <codeph>system_catalog[*]</codeph>. To give the user
                permission to run queries against the system catalog on a single bucket named
                'default' then specify their role as <codeph>system_catalog[default]</codeph>. If
                the user needs to be run queries against the system catalog for multiple buckets,
                for example 'default' and 'app', then set their role as
                  <codeph>system_catalog[default,app]</codeph>.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table> 
    </section>
    
    
    
            
            
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Examples
      </title>
      
      <p>To create an builtin RBAC user profile for a user named "John Doe" with username
          <codeph>jdoe</codeph> and password <codeph>cbpass</codeph> with roles to manage the
        'default' bucket and all XDCR replication run the following command: </p>
      
      <codeblock>$ couchbase-cli user-manage -c 127.0.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password --set --rbac-username jdoe --rbac-password cbpass --rbac-name "John Doe" --roles bucket_admin[default],replication_admin --auth-domain local</codeblock>   
      
      <p>If you have an external authentication source setup in your cluster and you want to add a
        user "John Doe" with username <codeph>jdoe</codeph> who should have the ability to manage
        only views for all bucket run the following command: </p>
      
      <codeblock>$ couchbase-cli user-manage -c 127.0.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password --set --rbac-username jdoe --rbac-name "John Doe" --roles view_admin[*] --auth-domain external</codeblock> 

      <p>To list the current RBAC user profiles run the following command:</p>
      
      <codeblock>$ couchbase-cli user-manage -c 127.0.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password --list</codeblock>
      
      <p>To delete an external user named <codeph>jdoe</codeph> run the following command: </p>
      
      <codeblock>$ couchbase-cli user-manage -c 127.0.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password --delete --rbac-username jdoe --auth-domain external</codeblock>
      
      <p>To delete a local user named <codeph>jdoe</codeph> run the following command: </p>
      
      <codeblock>$ couchbase-cli user-manage -c 127.0.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password --delete --rbac-username jdoe --auth-type builtin</codeblock>
      
      <p>To see the user profile for a user with the username <codeph>jdoe</codeph> and password
          <codeph>cbpass</codeph> run the following command:</p>
      
      <codeblock>$ couchbase-cli user-manage -c 127.0.0.1:8091 -u jdoe -p cbpass --my-roles</codeblock>
    
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Environment Variables
      </title>
      
      <p>
        The following environment variable can be used:
      </p> 
      
      <table>
        <title>CB_REST_PASSWORD</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="3*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Variable-Name</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
      
      <row>
        <entry><codeph>CB_REST_PASSWORD</codeph></entry>
        <entry>Specifies the password of the user executing the command. This environment variable
                allows you to specify a default argument for the -p/--password argument on the
                command line. It also allows the user to ensure that their password are not cached
                in their command line history.</entry>
      </row>
      </tbody>
      </tgroup>
      </table> 
    </section>

    

    
  </refbody>
</reference>
