<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="cbcli-xdcr-manage-encryption">
  <title><cmdname>xdcr-setup</cmdname></title>
  <shortdesc>XDCR data encryption with Secure Socket Layer (SSL) is enabled with the
      <codeph>xdcr-setup</codeph> command (Enterprise Edition only).</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <p>To configure XDCR with SSL data encryption, the <codeph>xdcr-setup</codeph> command is
        used.
        The option <codeph>--xdcr-demand-encryption</codeph> enables and disables data encryption. 
        To enable, specify 1. To disable, specify 0 (default).</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli xdcr-setup -c localhost:port -u [localadmin] -p [localpassword]
  --create --xdcr-clustername=[remoteclustername] 
  --xdcr-hostname=[remotehost]:[port] 
  --xdcr-username=[remoteadmin] --xdcr-password=[remotepassword]
  --xdcr-demand-encryption=[0|1]   // 1 to enable, 0 to disable (default)
  --xdcr-certificate=[localpath]/[certificateFile].pem</codeblock>
    </section> <section><title>Description</title><p>The Couchbase Server command line
      interface (CLI) enables XDCR data encryption (Enterprise Edition only) when an XDCR cluster
      reference is created or modified.</p>
      
      <p>To setup XDCR with SSL data encryption:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Retrieve the certificate from the destination cluster.</li>
        <li>Create or modify the XDCR configuration to allow data encryption and provide the SSL
          certificate.</li>
        <li>Define the replication.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
      
      
      <section><title>Options</title>
      
      
      <p>The <codeph>--xdcr-demand-encryption</codeph> option enables and disables XDCR data
        encryption. The <codeph>-xdcr-certificate=CERTIFICATE</codeph> option provides the SSL
        certificate for data security.</p>
      
        <p>The following are the command options:</p>
      <table frame="all" id="table_drj_bcn_c4">
        <title>xdcr-setup options</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.16*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Option</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--create</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Create a new XDCR configuration.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--edit</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Modify an existing XDCR configuration</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--delete</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Delete an existing XDCR configuration.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--list</codeph></entry>
              <entry>List all XDCR configurations.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--xdcr-cluster-name=CLUSTERNAME</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The remote cluster to replicate to.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--xdcr-hostname=HOSTNAME</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The remote host name to connect to.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--xdcr-username=USERNAME</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The administrator's username for the remote cluster.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--xdcr-password=PASSWORD</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The administrator's password for the remote cluster.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--xdcr-demand-encryption=[0|1]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Require data encryption using SSL (yes=1, no=0).</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--xdcr-certificate=CERTIFICATE</codeph></entry>
              <entry>A PEM-encoded certificate that needs to be present if the
                  <codeph>xdcr-demand-encryption</codeph> parameter is set to be
                  <codeph>true</codeph>.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    
      
      
      <section><title>Examples</title>
        <p>To require XDCR data encryption, execute <codeph>couchbase-cli xdcr-setup</codeph> with
          <codeph>--xdcr-demand-encryption=1</codeph>. </p>
        <codeblock>couchbase-cli xdcr-setup -c 10.3.4.186:8091 -u Administrator -p password \
--create --xdcr-cluster-name=Omaha --xdcr-hostname=10.3.4.187:8091 \ 
--xdcr-username=Peyton --xdcr-password=Manning --xdcr-demand-encryption=1 \
--xdcr-certificate=./new.pem</codeblock>

      <p>To disable XDCR data encryption, execute <codeph>couchbase-cli xdcr-setup</codeph> with
        <codeph>--xdcr-demand-encryption=0</codeph>. </p>
        <p><b>Request:</b></p>

      
        <codeblock>couchbase-cli xdcr-setup -c 10.3.4.186:8091 -u Administrator -p password \
--create --xdcr-cluster-name=Omaha --xdcr-hostname=10.3.4.187:8091 \ 
--xdcr-username=Peyton --xdcr-password=Manning \ 
--xdcr-demand-encryption=0 </codeblock>
        <p><b>Response:</b></p>

    <p>The following is an example of results for a successful XDCR configuration.</p>
    <codeblock>SUCCESS: init/edit test 
&lt;&lt;replication reference created&gt;&gt; </codeblock>
      
      </section>
    
  
    
  </refbody>
</reference>
