<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="cbcli-xdcr-manage-replications">
  <title><cmdname>xdcr-replicate</cmdname></title>
  <shortdesc>Options to manage XDCR replications. </shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <p>The basic syntax is:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli xdcr-replicate -c [host]:[port] -u [admin] -p [password]         
    [options]       </codeblock>
      
    </section>
    <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>Various XDCR operations.</p></section>
   
    
    <section><title>Options</title>
      <note type="note">Filtered XDCR is available only in Couchbase Server
        Enterprise Edition.</note>
      <p>The following are the command options:</p>
      <table frame="all" id="table_drj_bcn_c4">
        <title>xdcr-replicate options</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.46*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Option</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--create</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Create a new XDCR configuration.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--delete</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Delete an existing XDCR configuration.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--list</codeph></entry>
              <entry>List all XDCR configurations.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--pause</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Pause the replication.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--resume</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Resume the replication.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--settings</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Update settings for the replication.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--xdcr-replicator=REPLICATOR</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Replication ID.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--xdcr-from-bucket=BUCKET</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The local bucket name to replicate from.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--xdcr-to-bucket=BUCKETNAME</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Remote bucket to replicate to.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--checkpoint-interval =[1800]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Intervals between checkpoints , 60 to 14400 seconds</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--worker-batch-size =[500]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Document batch size, 500 to 10000.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--doc-batch size =[2048] kilobytes</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Document batch size, 10 to 100000 kilobytes.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--failure-restart-interval =[30]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Interval for restarting failed XDCR, 1 to 300 seconds.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--optimistic-replication-threshold =[256]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Document body size threshold (bytes) to trigger optimistic replication.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--source-nozzle-per-node=[1-100] </codeph></entry>
              <entry>The number of source nozzles per target node. Default is 2.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--target-nozzle-per-node=[1-100] </codeph>
              </entry>
              <entry>The number of outgoing nozzles per target node. Default is 2.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--log-level=[Error|Info|Debug|Trace]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Logging level.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--stats-interval=[MS]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>The interval (in milliseconds) for statistics updates.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--xdcr-replication-mode=[xmem|capi]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Replication protocol, either <codeph>capi</codeph> or
                <codeph>xmem</codeph>.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>--filter-expression-mode=[REGEX]</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Regular expression to filter the replication streams.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    
  
    
    <section><title>Examples</title>
      <p>To start a replication stream:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli xdcr-replicate -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password \
--create --xdcr-cluster-name=test \ 
--xdcr-from-bucket=default --xdcr-to-bucket=default1</codeblock>
      
    
      <p>To delete a replication stream:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli xdcr-replicate -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password \
--delete --xdcr-replicator=f4eb540d74c43fd3ac6d4b7910c8c92f/default/default</codeblock>
      
    
      <p>To start a replication stream with the memcached protocol and a regular expression as a filter, use the <codeph>regex</codeph> parameter:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli xdcr-replicate -c 192.168.0.1:8091 -u Administrator -p password \
--create --xdcr-cluster-name=test \ 
--xdcr-from-bucket=default --xdcr-to-bucket=default1 \ 
--xdcr-replication-mode=xmem --filter-expression-mode="192.168.1.\d{1,3}"</codeblock>
    </section>
    
 
  </refbody>
</reference>
