<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic 
PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic4832">

    
    <title>Advanced usage</title>


    <body>
        <section><title>Advanced settings</title>
            
            <p>The Couchbase Plug-in for Elasticsearch has several settings in a YAML file that can be update. 
                These additional settings include:</p>
            <ul>
                <li>couchbase.port: The port the plug-in listens on. Default: 9091.</li>
                <li>couchbase.username: The username for HTTP basic authentication. Default: Administrator.</li>
                <li>couchbase.password: The password for HTTP basic authentication. No default.</li>
                <li>couchbase.num_vbuckets: number of data partitions Elasticsearch should
                        specify to Couchbase Server. Default corresponds to the number of partitions
                        expected by Couchbase Server and that exist on the source Couchbase cluster.
                        For Mac OSX, the value is 64, and for all other platforms it is
                        1024.</li>
                <li>couchbase.defaultDocumentType: The type of documents stored in Elasticsearch.
                        These documents contain indexing information from Elasticsearch. Defaults to
                            <codeph>couchbaseDocument</codeph>. You can change this if you define
                        and implement your own document type which provides specialized
                        Elasticsearch search features. </li>
                <li>couchbase.checkpointDocumentType: Type of document that stores status
                        information about replication. Default: <codeph>couchbaseCheckpoint</codeph>.</li>
                <li>couchbase.typeSelector: The mechanism used to select the Elasticsearch type from
                    the document ID.</li>
                <li>couchbase.documentTypes: Elasticsearch type setting.</li>
                <li>couchbase.documentTypeParentFields: Parent fields.</li>
                <li>couchbase.documentTypeRoutingFields: Routing fields.</li>
                
            </ul></section>
        
        
        <section><title>Setting document type</title>
            
            <p>The Elasticsearch plug-in allows the Elasticsearch type to be set.</p>
            
            <p>The following example uses a regular expression selector for the plug-in 
                to set the Elasticsearch type by matching regular expressions on the document ID.
                The specification needs to be on the Elasticsearch configuration file. 
                The default is config/elasticsearch.yml.</p>
            
            <codeblock>
couchbase.typeSelector: org.elasticsearch.transport.couchbase.capi.RegexTypeSelector


// To set the elasticsearch type by matching regular expressions on the document ID.
// The following example matches document IDs like review-123 or review-789.
couchbase.documentTypes.review: ^review-(\d)+$
            
// Parent field is configured by using
couchbase.documentTypeParentFields.review: doc.bookId
            
// Routing is configured as
couchbase.documentTypeRoutingFields.review: doc.bookId
            
// Where bookId is a couchbase document key. The plug-in requires it to be a string.    
            </codeblock>
        
        
        
        
        </section>
        
        
        
        
        
        
        <section><title>Understanding metadata</title><p>As you get more advanced in your usage of
                Couchbase Plug-in for Elasticsearch, it might be helpful for you to understand what
                is actually sent via the plug-in and how Elasticsearch uses it. When you send a JSON
                document to Couchbase Server to store, it looks similar to the
                following:</p>
            <codeblock>

{
   "name": "Green Monsta Ale",
   "abv": 7.3,
   "ibu": 0,
   "srm": 0,
   "upc": 0,
   "type": "beer",
   "brewery_id": "wachusetts_brewing_company",
   "updated": "2010-07-22 20:00:20",
   "description": "A BIG PALE ALE with an awsome balance of Belgian malts with Fuggles and East Kent Golding hops.",
   "style": "American-Style Strong Pale Ale",
   "category": "North American Ale"
}

                </codeblock>
            <p>Here
                we have a JSON document with all the information for a beer in our application. When
                Couchbase stores this document, it adds metadata about the document so that we now
                have JSON in Couchbase that looks like
                this:</p>
            <codeblock>
{
    {
   "id": "wachusetts_brewing_company-green_monsta_ale",
   "rev": "1-00000005ce01e6210000000000000000",
   "expiration": 0,
   "flags": 0,
   "type": "json"
    }
    {
       "name": "Green Monsta Ale",
       "abv": 7.3,
       "ibu": 0,
       "srm": 0,
       "upc": 0,
       "type": "beer",
       "brewery_id": "wachusetts_brewing_company",
       "updated": "2010-07-22 20:00:20",
       "description": "A BIG PALE ALE with an awsome balance of Belgian malts with Fuggles and East Kent Golding hops.",
       "style": "American-Style Strong Pale Ale",
       "category": "North American Ale"
    }
}

                </codeblock>
            <p>The
                metadata that Couchbase Server stores with our beer document contains the key for
                the document, an internal revision number, expiration, flags and the type of
                document. When Couchbase Server replicates data to Elasticsearch via the plug-in, it
                sends this entire JSON including the metadata. Elasticsearch will then index the
                document and will store the following JSON with document
                metadata:</p>
            <codeblock>
{
  "id": "wachusetts_brewing_company-green_monsta_ale",
  "rev": "1-00000005ce01e6210000000000000000",
  "expiration": 0,
  "flags": 0,
  "type": "json"
}

            </codeblock>
            <p>And
                finally when you query Elasticsearch and get a result set, it will contain the
                document metadata
            only:</p>
            
            <codeblock>
{
    took: 22
    timed_out: false
    _shards: {
    total: 5
    successful: 5
    failed: 0
},
    hits: {
    total: 1
    max_score: 0.18642133
    hits: [
        {
        _index: beer-sample
        _type: couchbaseDocument
        _id: wachusetts_brewing_company-green_monsta_ale
        _score: 0.18642133
            _source: {
                meta: {
                    id: wachusetts_brewing_company-green_monsta_ale
                    rev: 1-00000005ce01e6210000000000000000
                    flags: 0
                    expiration: 0
                    }
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}

            </codeblock></section>
        
    </body>
    <related-links>
        <linklist>
            <link href="http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/reference/api/index_.html"
                scope="external" format="html">
                <linktext>Elasticsearch Guide, Index API</linktext>
            </link>
            <link href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/elasticsearch-transport-couchbase"
                scope="external" format="html">
                <linktext>Couchbase Plug-in for ElasticSearch on Github</linktext>
            </link>
            <link
                href="http://www.couchbase.com/presentations/couchbase-full-text-search-integration"
                scope="external" format="html">
                <linktext>Couchconf Presentation</linktext>
            </link>
            <link href="http://blog.couchbase.com/creating-content-store-couchbase-learning-portal"
                scope="external" format="html">
                <linktext>The Learning Portal</linktext>
            </link>
            <link href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/learningportal/" scope="external"
                format="html">
                <linktext>Couchbaselabs, Learning Portal</linktext>
            </link>
            <link
                href="http://blog.couchbase.com/couchbase-and-full-text-search-couchbase-transport-elastic-search"
                scope="external" format="html">
                <linktext>Blog post and tutorial on Elasticsearch with Couchbase</linktext>
            </link>
            <link href="http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/" scope="external" format="html">
                <linktext>Elasticsearch Guide</linktext>
            </link>
        </linklist>
    </related-links>
</topic>
