<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2022">
 <title>Installation introduction</title>
 <body>
  <p>Before you can work with Couchbase and Elasticsearch, you need to set up Couchbase Plug-in for
   Elasticsearch, a Couchbase 2.0 or later cluster, and an Elasticsearch cluster. After you install
   the clusters, start them. The Couchbase cluster stores any items from your application and sends
   replicas of these items to the Elasticsearch cluster for indexing. Your Couchbase cluster can
   contain one or more instances of Couchbase server, and your Elasticsearch cluster can contain one
   or more instances of the search engine. </p>
  
  <note type="note">See the release notes for Couchbase plug-ins for Elasticsearch that are compatible with earlier versions of Elasticsearch.</note>
   
  <p>For now, you probably need only one instance of Couchbase Server running in a cluster and one
   instance of the Elasticsearch engine. Later as you test your integration under load and deploy
   your implementation, you will need to add more servers to handle the workload. At this phase, the
   most important point about the Couchbase Server installation is to make sure that you include the
   beer-sample data, which is available as an installation option. The examples in this guide build
   on data contained in the sample database. </p>
 </body>
 <related-links>
  <linklist>
   <link href="https://github.com/couchbaselabs/elasticsearch-transport-couchbase" scope="external"
    format="html">
    <linktext>Couchbase Plug-in for Elasticsearch</linktext>
   </link>
   <link href="http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/reference/setup/installation.html"
    scope="external" format="html">
    <linktext>Elasticsearch installation</linktext>
   </link>
   <link href="http://docs.couchbase.com/admin/admin/install-intro.html"
    scope="external" format="html">
    <linktext>Couchbase Server Installation</linktext>
   </link>
  </linklist>
 </related-links>
</topic>
