<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1604">
  <title>Release notes for Elasticsearch plug-in</title>
  <body>
    
    <p>The Couchbase plug-in for Elasticsearch integrates Couchbase Server and Elasticsearch, 
      a full-text search engine, by streaming data in real-time from Couchbase to Elasticsearch. 
      The combined solution enables you to build richer and more powerful apps with full-text search, 
      indexing and querying and real-time analytics for variety of use cases such as a 
      content store or aggregation of data from different data sources.</p>

    
    <section><title>Elasticsearch plug-in 2.0</title>
      
      <p>This release note is for the Elasticsearch plug-in release 2.0 GA (October 2014).
        Elasticsearch plug-in version 2.0 is compatible with: <ul>
          <li>Elasticsearch 1.3.0.</li>
          <li>Couchbase Server 3.0</li>
          <li>Couchbase Server 2.5.x (backward compatible)</li>
        </ul></p>
      
      <p>The new feature(s) available in ElasticSearch Plugin v2.0: <ul>
          <li>Support more than one document type in Elasticsearch. (<xref
              href="https://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-12284" scope="external" format="html"
              >MB-12284</xref>)
            <p>For more information, see <xref href="adv-usage.dita"/></p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </p>
      
      <p>The following are known issues:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>The <codeph>att_reason</codeph> value for non-json documents changed from non-JSON.mode to invalid_json. 
            If a Couchbase cluster has a lot of deletes, the Elasticsearch log could fill up with a lot of messages. 
            (<xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/CBES-31" scope="external" format="html">CBES-31</xref>)</li>
      </ul>

</section>
    
    
    <section><title>Elasticsearch plug-in 1.3.0</title><p>This release note is for the Elasticsearch plug-in release 1.3.0 GA (April 2014). This release is
        compatibility only with Elasticsearch 1.0.1.</p><p>This
        release is compatible with Couchbase Server 2.5.x, and it is backward compatible with
        earlier 2.x releases. </p><ul>
          <li>Support for new XDCR checkpointing protocol. (<xref href="https://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/CBES-26" scope="external" format="html">CBES–26</xref>)</li>
          <li>Fixed failure handling due to bounded queue with Elasticsearch 1.x. (<xref href="https://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/CBES-27" scope="external" format="html">CBES–27</xref>)</li>
      </ul></section>
    
    
    <section><title>Elasticsearch plug-in 1.2.0</title><p>This release note is for the Elasticsearch plug-in release 1.2.0 GA (October 2013). This release
        adds compatibility with Elasticsearch 0.90.5.</p><p>This
        release is compatible with Couchbase Server 2.2, and it is backward compatible with earlier
        2.x releases.</p></section>
    
    
    <section><title>Elasticsearch plug-in 1.1.0</title><p>This release note is for the Elasticsearch plug-in release 1.1.0 GA (August 2013). This release
        adds compatibility with Elasticsearch 0.90.2.</p></section>
    
    
    <section><title>Elasticsearch plug-in 1.0.0</title><p>This release note is for the Elasticsearch plug-in release 1.0.0 GA (February 2013). This is the
        first general availability (GA) release. It contains the following enhancements and bug
        fixes:</p><ul>
        <li>Now compatible with version 0.20.2 of Elasticsearch.</li>
        <li>Now supports document expiration using Elasticsearch TTL.</li>
        <li>Now supports XDCR conflict resolution to reduce bandwidth usage in some
          cases.</li>
        <li>Fixed Couchbase index template to allow searching on the document metadata.</li>
          <li>Fixed data corruption under high load. (<xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/CBES-11" scope="external" format="html">CBES–11</xref>)</li>
          <li>Fixed recognition of non-JSON documents. (<xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/CBES-11" scope="external" format="html">CBES–11</xref>)</li>
        <li>Improved log information when indexing stub documents.</li>
      </ul></section>
    
    
    <section><title>Elasticsearch plug-in 1.0.0 Beta</title><p>This is the beta release of the Couchbase plug-in for Elasticsearch 1.0.0 Beta (February
        2013).</p>

    
    
    </section>
  </body>

</topic>
