<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2230">
  <title>Indexing issues</title>
  <body>
    <p>If you encounter issues with indexing, such as failure to index items from Couchbase, or
      unexpected items in your search results, try to check the following items and performing the
      described fixes:</p>
    
    <section><title>Change settings for initial indexing</title><p>If you have an existing Couchbase
        data bucket with a large number of documents already in production, these documents will be
        transferred to Elasticsearch in bulk. Typically this works with Elasticsearch default
        settings, however there are some Elasticsearch settings you can change so that indexing
        quickly completes.</p><p>You use the Elasticsearch <codeph>refresh_interval</codeph> setting
        to indicate how frequently the engine provides newly indexed items. During an initial bulk
        load of documents from Couchbase, you can reduce access to newly indexed items in exchange
        for overall faster indexing time. For more information about enabling and disabling this
        setting, see Elasticsearch Guide, Indices Update.</p></section>
    
    <section><title>Check Elasticsearch mappings</title><p>When you send documents to Elasticsearch
        it will automatically generate a mapping that contains rules for indexing fields. You can
        also provide your own mapping or update this mapping. Be aware that this default mapping
        from Elasticsearch includes assumptions about data types and data structures in your
        documents. Based on these assumptions, Elasticsearch may omit your document from the index.
        For instance, objects within an array may not be indexed as you expect.</p>
      <p>For general information about expected data structures for Elasticsearch see Elasticsearch, Mapping, Types and related sections.</p>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Check your documents</title>
      <p>Validate your documents as well-formed JSON. The
        Couchbase Plug-in for Elasticsearch will take any items that are binary data and will log an
        error message. Elastic search cannot index documents which are not valid JSON, for
        instances.jpgs and other forms of binary data cannot be indexed by Elasticsearch.</p><p>If
        you change a field type for your documents after Elasticsearch has indexed, it may omit your
        document from the index. 
        </p></section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <link href="design-docs.dita"></link>
      <link href="http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/reference/api/admin-indices-update-settings"
        scope="external" format="html">
        <linktext>Elasticsearch Guide, Indices Update</linktext>
      </link>
      <link href="http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/reference/mapping/" scope="external"
        format="html">
        <linktext>Elasticsearch, Mapping, Types</linktext>
      </link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
