<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_l3v_lh4_14">
  <title>XDCR advanced settings</title>
  <shortdesc>XDCR advanced settings are internal settings available for configuration.</shortdesc>
  <body>

      <p>Advanced settings that can be updated include:</p> 
   
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>XDCR Protocol</dt>
        <dd>The XDCR protocol defaults to version 2. <ul>
            <li>Version 1 uses the REST protocol for replication. If the Elasticsearch plug-in is
              used, choose version 1.</li>
            <li>Version 2 uses memcached REST protocol for replication, a high-performance mode that
              directly uses the memcached protocol on the destination nodes. Choose version 2 when
              setting up a new replication with Couchbase Server 2.2 or later. </li>
          </ul></dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    
    
    <dl>
     <dlentry>
       <dt>XDCR Source Nozzles per Node</dt>
       <dd>This setting determines the number of XDCR source nozzles per node. This number must be
          less than or equal to the number of <codeph>XDCR Target Nozzles per Node</codeph>.</dd>
       <dd>A small value of two or four is often sufficient. The default is two and the value range
          is 1-100. The CLI command for setting this value is provided in <xref
            href="../cli/cbcli/xdcr-replicate.dita#cbcli-xdcr-manage-replications"/>.</dd>
     </dlentry>
   </dl> 
    
  <dl>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>XDCR Target Nozzles per Node</dt>
      <dd>This setting determines the number of XDCR target nozzles per node, and this number can be
          set higher if the target nodes have high processing power. The default is two and the
          value range is 1-100.</dd>
      <dd>The setting <codeph>XDCR Target Nozzles per Node</codeph> affects the level of concurrency
          as follows:
          <codeblock>Number of concurrent workers writing to the target cluster  = 
XDCR Target Nozzles per Node * &lt;Number of Nodes in Target Cluster&gt;</codeblock></dd>
    </dlentry>
  </dl>

    <note type="note">The setting for <codeph>XDCR Source Nozzles per Node</codeph> must be less or
      equal to <codeph>XDCR Target Nozzles per Node</codeph>. Otherwise, more mutations per second
      are received by XDCR than it can send to the target node. This can lead to mutations piling up
      in the XDCR queue and to DCP backing off, which results in a slow drain rate.</note>
<dl>
  <dlentry>
    <dt>XDCR Checkpoint Interval</dt>
    <dd>The Checkpoint Interval does not affect the persistence of actual data. During that time, 
      XDCR computes and persists checkpoint documents, which contain the high sequence number 
      for each vBucket that was successfully replicated to the target cluster.
      <p>If the replication is restarted by user or recovers from an error, 
      the checkpoint documents can be used to determine the starting point of t
      he replication to avoid unnecessary work. The shorter the interval, 
      the more accurate the checkpoint documents will be and the less unnecessary 
      work will be needed at the replication restart. The computation and persistence of 
      checkpoint documents use considerable system resources and may impact XDCR performance 
      if they are performed too frequently. A tradeoff is needed to determine the optimal value for the users.</p></dd>
   
  </dlentry>
</dl>
        
  <dl>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>XDCR Batch Count</dt>
      <dd>Document batching count, 500 to 10000. Default is 500. In general, increasing this value
          by 2 or 3 times will improve XDCR transmissions rates since larger batches of data will be
          sent in the same timed interval. For unidirectional replication from a source to a
          destination cluster, adjusting this setting by 2 or 3 times will improve overall
          replication performance as long as persistence to disk is fast enough on the destination
          cluster. Note however that this can have a negative impact on the destination cluster if
          you are performing bi-directional replication between two clusters and the destination
          already handles a significant volume of reads/writes.</dd>
    </dlentry>
  </dl>      
        
   <dl>
     <dlentry>
       <dt>XDCR Batch Size (KB)</dt>
       <dd>Document batching size, 10 to 100000 (KB). Default is 2048. In general, increasing this
          value by 2 or 3 times will improve XDCR transmissions rates since larger batches of data
          will be sent in the same timed interval. For unidirectional replication from a source to a
          destination cluster, adjusting this setting by 2 or 3 times will improve overall
          replication performance as long as persistence to disk is fast enough on the destination
          cluster. Note however that this can have a negative impact on the destination cluster if
          you are performing bi-directional replication between two clusters and the destination
          already handles a significant volume of reads/writes.</dd>
     </dlentry>
   </dl>    
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>XDCR Failure Retry Interval</dt>
        <dd>This interval is the time that XDCR waits before it attempts to restart replication
          after a server or network failure. The interval for restarting a failed XDCR is 1 to 300
          seconds (default 10): if you expect more frequent network or server failures, you may want
          to set this interval to a lower value.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>    
        
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>XDCR Optimistic Replication Threshold</dt>
        <dd>This option improves XDCR latency and represents the compressed document size in bytes that spans from 0 to 
          20MB (default is 256 Bytes). XDCR will get metadata for documents larger than this size on a single 
          time before replicating the uncompressed document to a destination cluster. </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>    
        
    
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>XDCR Statistics Collection Interval</dt>
        <dd>Shows how often XDCR Statistics is updated.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>XDCR Logging Level</dt>
        <dd>The log level for the replication. It can be <codeph>Error</codeph>, <codeph>Info</codeph>, <codeph>Debug</codeph> or <codeph>Trace</codeph></dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
 
  </body>
</topic>
