<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="conflict-resolution">
  <title>XDCR Conflict Resolution</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>Conflicts and Conflict Resolution</title>
          <p>A conflict is where the same document is modified in two different locations
            before the document has been synchronized between the locations. To maintain consistency
            between these two locations, one version has to be chosen as the 'correct' version.
            Conflict resolution provides a method to consistently and deterministically select which
            version of the document to use.</p>
          <p>In the case of XDCR, if the same documents are being mutated on both ends of
            an XDCR replication (source and destination), then there is a high probability that
            conflicts could occur. XDCR automatically performs conflict resolution between different
            document versions on the source and destination clusters to ensure that both clusters
            remain in sync.</p>
      <p>Couchbase Server supports two distinct conflict resolution strategies - <xref href="#conflict-resolution/revision-id-based-conflict-resolution"><b>revision
        ID-based</b> (default)</xref> and <xref href="#conflict-resolution/timestamp-based-conflict-resolution"><b>timestamp-based</b></xref>.</p>
      <p>
        <note>Timestamp-based conflict resolution is only available in the Enterprise Edition of
          Couchbase Server.</note>
      </p>
        
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>How Conflict Resolution Works</title>
      <p>When a document is modified at an XDCR source, it determines if this revision of the
        document should be applied to the destination. XDCR fetches metadata for the document from
        the destination cluster before it replicates the document. XDCR compares the destination
        metadata with the metadata of the updated document on the source cluster to pick the
        'winner'. The metadata used depends on the source bucket's conflict resolution policy. If
        XDCR determines a document from a source cluster will 'win' conflict resolution, it
        replicates that document to the target cluster. </p>
      <p>Once the document reaches the destination, the destination cluster will also compare
        metadata to confirm the document from the source cluster is still the 'winner'. If the
        document from the source cluster is still the 'winner' it will be applied to the destination
        cluster. The destination cluster will discard the document version which 'loses' conflict
        resolution. </p>
      <p>XDCR optimises this process for small documents (default 256 bytes). XDCR skips fetching metadata for these documents from the
        destination cluster and immediately sends the document to the destination to undergo
        conflict resolution. </p>
      <p>Conflict resolution is an automatic process and does not require any manual correction or
        selection of documents.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="revision-id-based-conflict-resolution"><title>Revision-based Conflict Resolution</title>
      <p>Revision ID-based conflict resolution uses revision ID as the first field to resolve
        conflicts between two writes across clusters. Revision IDs are maintained per document and
        are incremented with every update to the document. The revision ID monotonically keeps track
        of the number of mutations to a document, thus revision ID-based conflict resolution can be
        best characterized as 'the most updates wins'. XDCR initially compares the revision ID of
        the source document with the revision ID of the equivalent destination document. The
        document with more revisions is considered the 'winner'.</p>
      <p> In the event that both document versions have the same revision ID, the following metadata
        is compared (in order) to resolve conflicts:</p>
      <ol><li>CAS value</li>
        <li>Expiration (TTL) value</li>
        <li>Document flags</li></ol>
      <p>For conflict resolution between an incoming mutation from another cluster and a local
        mutation in the current cluster, if the incoming mutation does not have a higher revision ID
        than the local mutation, it will be discarded and will not be stored. In the case of
        bidirectional replication, this process results in the mutation with the highest revision ID
        taking precedence on both clusters. </p>
      <p>The key point is that the number of document mutations is the main factor that determines
        whether XDCR keeps a document version or not. This means that the document that has the most
        recent mutation may not be necessarily the one that wins conflict resolution using revision
        ID. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="timestamp-based-conflict-resolution">
      <title>Timestamp-based Conflict Resolution</title>
      <p>Timestamp-based conflict resolution uses the document timestamp (stored in the CAS) as the
        first field to resolve conflicts between two writes across clusters. Couchbase Server uses a
        hybrid logical clock (HLC), a combination of a physical clock and a logical clock, to store
        the timestamp and keep consistent ordering of mutations. </p>
      <p>Using timestamp-based conflict resolution, document updates with the most recent timestamp
        will 'win' conflict resolution. As such timestamp-based conflict resolution can be best
        characterised as 'last write wins'. XDCR initially compares the timestamp of the source
        document with the timestamp of the equivalent destination document. The document with a
        higher timestamp value is considered the 'winner'. </p>
      <p>In the event that both document versions have the same timestamp value, the following
        metadata is compared (in order) to resolve conflicts: </p>
      <p><ol id="ol_s4q_scv_qy">
          <li>Revision ID</li>
          <li>Expiration (TTL) value</li>
          <li>Document flags</li>
        </ol>For conflict resolution between an incoming mutation from another cluster and a local
        mutation in the current cluster, if the incoming mutation does not have a higher timestamp
        value than the local mutation, it will be discarded and will not be stored. In the case of
        bidirectional replication, this process results in the mutation with the highest timestamp
        value taking precedence on both clusters. </p>
      <p>The key point is that the timestamp of the most recent mutation is the main factor that
        determines whether XDCR keeps a document version or not. This means that the document has
        received the most mutations may not be necessarily the one that wins conflict resolution
        using the timestamp. </p>
      <p>One caveat of using timestamp-based conflict resolution is that it requires the use of
        synchronized clocks, which places a dependence on a system external to Couchbase Server to
        ensure correct functioning of the feature, see <xref
          href="../install/synchronize-clocks-using-ntp.dita"/> for further details.</p>
      <p>See <xref href="xdcr-timestamp-based-conflict-resolution.dita"></xref> for further details about using timestamp-based conflict resolution including
        important environmental considerations. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_whz_ycv_qy"><title>Choosing the Right Conflict Resolution
        Method</title><p>The conflict resolution policy is configured on a per-bucket basis at
          bucket creation time, it cannot be changed later. For more information, see 
          <xref href="../clustersetup/create-bucket.dita"/>. It
        is therefore important to choose the correct conflict resolution method for your application
        requirements to avoid unintended side effects. Choosing the correct conflict resolution
        method requires consideration of the application logic as to which version of the document
        is the most useful as the data in 'losing' version is discarded. </p><p>To illustrate how application logic affects the choice of conflict resolution method, two simple
          examples are provided. More detailed use case examples can be found in 
          <xref href="xdcr-timestamp-based-conflict-resolution.dita#timestamp-based-conflict-resolution/use-cases"></xref>.</p><p><b>Example 1 -
          Most Updates is Best </b></p><p>Consider a hit counter for a website, stored as a counter document within Couchbase Server which
        is incremented on every access. In the event of a conflict occurring, you would want the
        version of the document has been incremented the most, as that will more closely reflect the
        actual count. Revision ID-based conflict resolution would be preferable in this instance as
        it ensures that the document which has been mutated the most 'wins'.</p>
      <p><b>Example 2 - Most Recent Update is Best</b></p>
      <p>Consider a thermometer device which stores the current temperature in Couchbase Server,
        writing to the same key repeatedly. In the event of a conflict occurring, you would want to
        keep the version of the document which was captured most recently, as that is the most
        accurate 'current' temperature. Timestamp-based conflict resolution ensures that the most
        recent version of the document would be used.</p></section>
    <p>
      <note type="important"><p><b>It is not possible to create XDCR replications between buckets with different conflict
            resolution policies.</b></p>
        <p>It is however, possible to create XDCR replications from pre-4.6 Couchbase Server buckets
          to timestamp-based conflict resolution buckets. To prevent timestamp corruption the
          destination cluster will reject all incoming XDCR traffic from the non timestamp-based
          conflict resolution bucket. Revision ID-based buckets do not suffer from this issue and
          should be used in all cases where you need to use XDCR from pre-4.6 Couchbase Server
          clusters.</p></note>
    </p>   
  </body>
  <related-links>
    
    <linklist>
      <desc>For information on how to set the conflict resolution type for a bucket, see</desc>
      <link href="../clustersetup/create-bucket.dita"/>
    </linklist>
    <linklist><desc>For further information on timestamp-based conflict resolution, see</desc>
    <link href="xdcr-timestamp-based-conflict-resolution.dita"/></linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
