<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_x3j_lwg_1t">
  <title>Monitor Using the <cmdname>cbstats</cmdname> Utility</title> <shortdesc>You can query individual nodes for statistics either through a client that uses binary
    protocol or through the <codeph>cbstats</codeph> utility. </shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>Software developers and system administrators seeking lower level statistic information can
      retrieve them through the <xref href="../cli/cbstats-intro.dita#cbstats-intro">cbstats</xref>
      command line utility, which provides deep insight into what occurs within a cluster. Below are
      some of the key metrics available through <cmdname>cbstats</cmdname> and their meaning:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>By tracking the number of open and rejected connections via
          <codeph>curr_connections</codeph> and <codeph>rejected_conns</codeph> statistics, we can
        understand if any connection requests were rejected by this node.</li>
      <li>Each time an object is requested by an application and not found in the cache, Couchbase
        Server will find the object on disk. <p>This cache miss requires a background fetch and is a
          measured per item fetched from disk by <codeph>ep_bg_fetched</codeph>. If you are managing
          to a 100% working set, this could be a sign of a cluster under stress. The cache miss
          might not be an issue if you have a smaller working set. In either scenario, gaining an
          understanding of what’s typical in an environment is important as a large increase will
          provide an early warning signal.</p></li>
      <li>The number of items queued for persistence is an important area to monitor so that you
        understand if your cluster has adequate I/O resources for your application. <p>While your
          application will always be served via the caching tier, one of the great benefits of
          Couchbase Server is its ability to provide data durability by persisting to disk. If this
          asynchronous operation becomes overloaded, it can impact the application performance. As a
          result, especially in heavy write systems, it will be important that you monitor
            <codeph>ep_queue_size</codeph> and <codeph>ep_flusher_todo</codeph>. You would never
          want to get to 1 million items in the queue, and you would likely want to flag a warning
          around 500000 to 800000, especially if this is an upward trend over time.</p></li>
      <li>Following the <codeph>vb_num_eject_replicas</codeph> statistic gives you the number of
        times when Couchbase Server ejected replica values from memory. <p>This statistics indicates
          that a specific bucket has reached its low watermark. While simply reaching this threshold
          might not be problematic as the cluster is simply freeing memory resources, it might be a
          problem if you consistently see this behavior or if it is an increasing trend. More
          importantly, this is a way to head off out of memory (<codeph>ep_oom_errors</codeph>
            and<codeph> ep_tmp_oom_errors</codeph>) scenarios, which you never want to see in your
          production clusters.</p></li>
      <li>The Couchbase Server design avoids stale cache scenarios by performing a warmup process
        during the node startup. <p><term>Warmup</term> is the task of reading objects from the disk
          and pre-loading the cache. Monitoring the warmup provides visibility into how quickly a
          node will complete its startup process and be available to support load within the
          cluster. The warmup is complete when <codeph>ep_warmup_value_count</codeph> is equal to
            <codeph>vb_active_curr_items</codeph>. However, getting more granular information can be
          provided by <codeph>ep_warmup_state</codeph>. </p><p>Below are the seven warmup states. A
          node will not complete until its status is <codeph>done</codeph>.</p><ul>
          <li><codeph>Initial</codeph>: Start warmup processes.</li>
          <li><codeph>EstimateDatabaseItemCount</codeph>: Estimating database item count.</li>
          <li><codeph>KeyDump</codeph>: Begin loading keys and metadata into RAM, but not
            documents.</li>
          <li><codeph>CheckForAccessLog</codeph>: Determine if an access log is available. This log
            indicates which keys have been frequently read or written.</li>
          <li>
            <codeph>LoadingAccessLog</codeph>: Load information from the access log.</li>
          <li><codeph>LoadingData</codeph>: The server is loading data first for keys listed in the
            access log. If no log is available, it loads data based on keys found during the
              <term>Key Dump</term> phase.</li>
          <li>
            <codeph>Done</codeph>: The server is ready to handle <cmdname>read</cmdname> and
              <cmdname>write</cmdname> requests.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Since Couchbase Server is not only a NoSQL persistence engine but also a cache, you need
        to understand memory consumption of the Couchbase Server <codeph>ep_engine</codeph>. This
        can be monitored by the option  <codeph>mem_used</codeph>.</li>
     
    </ol>
    <p>For example: <codeblock>> cbstats localhost:11210 all
 auth_cmds:                   9
 auth_errors:                 0
 bucket_conns:                10
 bytes_read:                  246378222
 bytes_written:               289715944
 cas_badval:                  0
 cas_hits:                    0
 cas_misses:                  0
 cmd_flush:                   0
 cmd_get:                     134250
 cmd_set:                     115750
…
</codeblock></p>
    
    
  
  </body>
</topic>
