<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1635">
  <title>Underlying server processes</title>
  <shortdesc>There are several server processes that constantly run on Couchbase Server.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>These processes occur whether or not the server is  handling reads/writes actively or
      handling other operations from a client application. Right after you start up a node, you may
      notice a spike in CPU utilization, and the utilization rate will plateau at some level greater
      than zero. The following describes the ongoing processes that are running on your node:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><codeph>beam.smp</codeph> on Linux; <codeph>erl.exe</codeph> on Windows</li>
    </ul>
    <p>These processes are responsible for monitoring and managing all other underlying server
      processes such as ongoing XDCR replications, cluster operations, and views.</p>
    <p>There is a separate monitoring/babysitting process running on each node. The process is small
      and simple and, therefore, unlikely to crash due to lack of memory. It is responsible for
      spawning and monitoring the second, larger process for cluster management, XDCR, and views. It
      also spawns and monitors the processes for Moxi and memcached. If any of these three processes
      fail, the monitoring process will re-spawn them.</p>
    <p>The main benefit of this approach is that an Erlang VM crash will not cause the
        <codeph>Moxi</codeph> and <codeph>memcached</codeph> processes to crash. You will see two
        <codeph>beam.smp</codeph> or <codeph>erl.exe</codeph> processes running on Linux or Windows
      respectively.</p>
    <p>The set of log files for this monitoring process is <codeph>ns_server.babysitter.log</codeph>
      which you can collect with <codeph>cbcollect_info</codeph>. </p>
    <ul>
      <li><codeph>memcached</codeph>: This process is responsible for caching items in RAM and persisting
          them to disk.</li>
      <li><codeph>moxi</codeph>: This process enables third-party memcached clients to connect to the
          server.</li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <link href="../CLI/cbcollect_info_tool.dita"></link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
