<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2157">
	<title>Monitoring startup (warmup)</title><shortdesc><term>warmup</term> refers to situations when Couchbase Server already contains data 
		before starting and needs to read that data first. </shortdesc>
	<body>
		<p>If a Couchbase Server node is starting up for the first time, it creates any database files
			that are necessary and begins serving data immediately. However, if there is already
			data on disk, such as when a node is rebooted or a service restarted, the node needs to
			read all of this data from the disk before it can begin serving it. Depending on the
			data size, warmup can take some time. </p>
		<p>When starting up a node, there are a few statistics to monitor. Use the
				<cmdname>cbstats</cmdname> command to watch the warmup stats:</p>
		<codeblock>cbstats localhost:11210 warmup</codeblock>
		<p>The following statistics are of particular interest when monitoring the warmup.</p>
		<dl>
			<dlentry>
				<dt><codeph>ep_warmup_thread</codeph></dt>
				<dd>The overall indication of whether or not warmup is still running. Look for values: running
					and complete.</dd>
			</dlentry>
			<dlentry>
				<dt><codeph>ep_warmup_state</codeph></dt>
				<dd>Describes which phase of warmup is currently running. Look for values: loading keys, loading
					access log and done. </dd>
			</dlentry>
		</dl>
		
		<ul>
			<li>When <codeph>ep_warmup_state</codeph> is loading keys, compare
					<codeph>ep_warmup_key_count</codeph> (current number) with
					<codeph>ep_warmup_estimated_key_count</codeph> (target number).</li>
			<li>When <codeph>ep_warmup_state</codeph> is loading access log, compare
				<codeph>ep_warmup_value_count</codeph> (current number) with
				<codeph>ep_warmup_estimated_value_count</codeph> (target
				number).</li>
		</ul>
	</body>

</topic>
