<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3970">
  <title>Couchbase Server statistics</title>
  <shortdesc>Couchbase Server provides statistics at multiple levels throughout the cluster.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>The statistics are used for regular monitoring, capacity planning and to identify the
      performance characteristics of your cluster deployment. The most visible statistics are those
      in the Couchbase Web Console, but also the components such as the REST interface and the proxy
      and individual nodes have directly accessible statistics interfaces.</p>
    <section><title>REST interface statistics</title><p>To interact with statistics provided by REST, use the Couchbase Web Console. This GUI gathers
        statistics via REST and displays them to your browser. The REST interface has a set of
        resources that provide access to the current and historic statistics the cluster gathers and
        stores.</p></section>
    
    <section><title>Couchbase Server node statistics</title><p>You can see the detailed stats documentation in the repository.</p><p>Along with stats at the REST and UI level, individual nodes can also be queried for statistics
        either through a client that uses a binary protocol or through the <codeph>cbstats</codeph>
        utility.</p><p>For
        example:</p><codeblock><codeph>&gt; cbstats localhost:11210 all
 auth_cmds:                   9
 auth_errors:                 0
 bucket_conns:                10
 bytes_read:                  246378222
 bytes_written:               289715944
 cas_badval:                  0
 cas_hits:                    0
 cas_misses:                  0
 cmd_flush:                   0
 cmd_get:                     134250
 cmd_set:                     115750
…
</codeph></codeblock><p>The most commonly needed statistics are displayed using the Couchbase Web Console and have
        descriptions there and in the associated documentation. Software developers and system
        administrators who require lower level information can obtain it through the stats
        interface.</p>
      
    </section>
    
    <section><title><cmdname>cbstats</cmdname> command</title> The <cmdname>cbstats</cmdname> CLI
      command displays statistics for the following:
      <codeblock>
  Usage: cbstats host:dataport all
  or   cbstats host:dataport allocator
  or   cbstats host:dataport checkpoint [vbid]
  or   cbstats host:dataport config
  or   cbstats host:dataport dcp
  or   cbstats host:dataport dcp-takeover vb name
  or   cbstats host:dataport dcpagg
  or   cbstats host:dataport diskinfo [detail]
  or   cbstats host:dataport dispatcher [logs]
  or   cbstats host:dataport failovers [vbid]
  or   cbstats host:dataport hash [detail]
  or   cbstats host:dataport items (memcached bucket only)
  or   cbstats host:dataport key keyname vbid
  or   cbstats host:dataport kvstore
  or   cbstats host:dataport kvtimings
  or   cbstats host:dataport memory
  or   cbstats host:dataport prev-vbucket
  or   cbstats host:dataport raw argument
  or   cbstats host:dataport reset
  or   cbstats host:dataport runtimes
  or   cbstats host:dataport scheduler
  or   cbstats host:dataport slabs (memcached bucket only)
  or   cbstats host:dataport tap
  or   cbstats host:dataport tap-takeover vb name
  or   cbstats host:dataport tapagg
  or   cbstats host:dataport timings
  or   cbstats host:dataport uuid
  or   cbstats host:dataport vbucket
  or   cbstats host:dataport vbucket-details [vbid]
  or   cbstats host:dataport vbucket-seqno [vbid]
  or   cbstats host:dataport vkey keyname vbid
  or   cbstats host:dataport warmup
  or   cbstats host:dataport workload      
        
      </codeblock>
      The options used with the <cmdname>cbstats</cmdname> command are: <ul>
        <li><option>-b</option>: The bucket to get statistics from .(Default: default)</li>
        <li><option>-p</option>: The password for the bucket, if one exists.</li>
        <li><option>-j</option>: Output the results in JSON format. </li>
      </ul></section>
      
     

    <section><title><cmdname>stats</cmdname> command</title><p><cmdname>stats</cmdname> command displays a large list of statistics related to the Couchbase
        process including the underlying engine (ep_* stats).</p></section>
    <section><title>dispatcher command</title><p><cmdname>dispatcher</cmdname> command statistic shows what the dispatcher is currently doing:</p><codeblock><codeph>dispatcher
     runtime: 45ms
       state: dispatcher_running
      status: running
        task: Running a flusher loop.
nio_dispatcher
       state: dispatcher_running
      status: idle
</codeph></codeblock><p>The first entry <cmdname>dispatcher</cmdname> monitors the process responsible for disk access.
        The second entry is a non-IO (non-disk) dispatcher. There may also be a
          <cmdname>ro_dispatcher </cmdname>present if the engine is allowing concurrent reads and
        writes. When a task is running on a given dispatcher, the <codeph>runtime</codeph> tells you
        how long the current task has been running. Newer versions will show you a log of recently
        run dispatcher jobs..</p></section>
    
    <section><title>Changing statistics collection</title>
      <p>The <codeph>default</codeph> Couchbase Server statistics collection is set to collect every
        second. The <codeph>statistic</codeph> collection collects statistics less frequently. </p>
      <note type="note">If you change the <codeph>statistic</codeph> collection to be other than the
          <codeph>default</codeph>, the Couchbase service must be restarted.</note>
      
      <p>To change <codeph>statistic</codeph> collection:</p><ol>
        <li>Log in as <codeph>root</codeph> or <codeph>sudo</codeph> and navigate to the directory
          where Couchbase is installed. For example:
           <filepath> /opt/couchbase/etc/couchbase/static_config</filepath></li>
        <li>Edit the <codeph>static_config</codeph> file.</li>
        <li>Add the following parameter: <codeph>grab_stats_every_n_ticks, 10</codeph>, where 10 is the number of
          ticks. In the Couchbase environment one tick is one second (default). It is recommended
          that the statistics collection be more frequent (and accurate). However, assign an
          appropriate tick value for you environment.</li>
        <li>Restart the Couchbase service. This will change the statistics collection rate.</li>
      </ol></section>
    
    <section><title>Changing stats file location</title><p>The default stats
          file location is <codeph>/opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/stats</codeph>, however, if you
          want to change the default stats file location, create a symlink location to the new
          directory.</p>
      <note type="note">When creating a symlink, stop and restart the Couchbase
          service. </note></section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <link href="../REST/overview-rest-api.dita"></link>
      <link href="../CLI/cbstats-intro.dita"></link>
      <link href="http://github.com/membase/ep-engine/blob/master/docs/stats.org" scope="external"
        format="html">
        <linktext>Detailed stats documentation</linktext>
      </link>
      
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
