<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ygz_jhp_4x">
  <title>Indexing JSON Documents and Query Performance</title>
  <body>
    <p>Creating the right index - with the right keys, in the right order, and using the right
      expressions, is critical to query performance in any database system. This is true for
      Couchbase as well. This topic provides an overview of the indexing options for JSON in
      Couchbase, which in turn would help query for data efficiently and improve query
      performance.</p>
    <p>There are two types of indexes available:<ul>
      <li>Standard global secondary index</li>
      <li>Memory-optimized global secondary index</li>
    </ul></p>
    <p>The standard global secondary index stores uses the ForestDB storage engine to store the B-Tree index and keeps the optimal working set of data in the buffer. This means, the total size of the index can be much bigger than the amount of memory available in each index node.</p>
    <p>A memory-optimized index uses a lock-free skiplist to maintain the index and keeps all the index data in memory. A memory-optimized index has better latency for index scans and processes the mutations of the data much faster.</p>
    <p>Both standard and memory-optimized indexes implement multi-version concurrency control (MVCC)
      to provide consistent index scan results and high throughput. </p>
    <p>During cluster installation, you can choose the type of index you'd like to use in the
      cluster.</p>
    <p>The examples in this topic use the travel-sample dataset which is shipped with Couchbase
      Server. Ensure that you've installed the travel-sample bucket. For instructions on how to
      install the sample bucket, see <xref
        href="../../settings/install-sample-buckets.dita#topic_jqr_1rn_vs"/>.</p>
    <p>Couchbase Server is a distributed database that supports flexible data model using JSON. Each
      document in a bucket has a user-generated unique document key and this uniqueness is enforced
      when inserting data into the bucket. Take a look at the following sample document:
      <codeblock>SELECT meta().id, travel 
FROM `travel-sample` travel 
WHERE type = 'airline' 
LIMIT 1;

[
    {
        <b>"id": "airline_10"</b>,
        "travel": {
            "callsign": "MILE-AIR",
            "country": "United States",
            "iata": "Q5",
            "icao": "MLA",
            "id": 10,
            "name": "40-Mile Air",
            "type": "airline"
            }
        }
    ]</codeblock></p>
    <section id="primary-index"><title>Primary Index</title>
      <p>The primary index is simply an index on the document key on the entire bucket.
        <codeblock>CREATE PRIMARY INDEX ON `travel-sample`;</codeblock></p>
      <p>The Couchbase data layer enforces the uniqueness constraint on the document key. The
        primary index, like every other index, is maintained asynchronously. Use the primary index
        for full bucket scans (primary scans) when the query does not have any filters (predicates)
        or when no other index or access path can be used.</p>
        <codeblock spectitle="Metadata for Primary Index">SELECT * FROM system:indexes WHERE name = '#primary';
[
"indexes": {
    "datastore_id": "http://127.0.0.1:8091",
    "id": "f6e3c75d6f396e7d",
    "index_key": [],
    "is_primary": true,
    "keyspace_id": "travel-sample",
    "name": "#primary",
    "namespace_id": "default",
    "state": "online",
    "using": "gsi"
    }
    ]</codeblock><p>The metadata provides additional information about the index like where does the index reside
          (<systemoutput>datastore_id</systemoutput>), its state
        (<systemoutput>state</systemoutput>), and the indexing method used
          (<systemoutput>using</systemoutput>).</p>
    </section>
    <section id="named-primary-index"><title>Named Primary Index</title>
      <p>You can name the primary index,  as seen in the following
        example.<codeblock>CREATE PRIMARY INDEX `def_primary` ON `travel-sample`;</codeblock></p>
      <p>The rest of the features of the primary index are the same, except that this index is
        named. The advantage of naming a primary index is that you can have multiple primary indexes
        in the system. Duplicate indexes help with high availability as well as query load
        distribution between the indexes. This is true for both primary indexes and secondary
        indexes.</p>
      <codeblock>SELECT meta().id AS documentkey, `travel-sample` airline 
FROM `travel-sample` 
WHERE type = 'airline' 
LIMIT 1;
[
  {
    "airline": {
      "callsign": "MILE-AIR",
      "country": "United States",
      "iata": "Q5",
      "icao": "MLA",
      "id": 10,
      "name": "40-Mile Air",
      "type": "airline"
    },
    "documentkey": "airline_10"
  }
]</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section id="secondary-index"><title>Secondary Index</title><p>The secondary index is an index on any key-value or document-key. This index can use any key
        within the document and the key can be of any type: scalar, object, or array. The query has
        to use the same type of object for the query engine to use the index.</p>
      <codeblock spectitle="Example: Key is a Simple Scalar Value">CREATE INDEX travel_name ON `travel-sample`(name);

# Name is a simple scalar value such as:
# { "name": "Air France" }</codeblock>
      <codeblock spectitle="Example: Key is an Object Embedded Within the Document">CREATE INDEX travel_geo on `travel-sample`(geo);

# get is an object embedded within the document such as:
# "geo": {
#    "alt": 12,
#    "lat": 50.962097,
#    "lon": 1.954764
#    }</codeblock>
      <codeblock spectitle="Example: Keys from Nested Objects">CREATE INDEX travel_geo on `travel-sample`(geo.alt);

CREATE INDEX travel_geo on `travel-sample`(geo.lat);</codeblock>
      <codeblock spectitle="Example: Keys is an Array of Objects"># Schedule is an array of objects with flight details. This command indexes the
# complete array and is useful only if you're looking for the entire array.
CREATE INDEX travel_schedule ON `travel-sample`(schedule);
Example:
"schedule": [
        {
            "day": 0,
            "flight": "AF198",
            "utc": "10:13:00"
            },
        {
            "day": 0,
            "flight": "AF547",
            "utc": "19:14:00"
            },
        {
            "day": 0,
            "flight": "AF943",
            "utc": "01:31:00"
            },
        {
            "day": 1,
            "flight": "AF356",
            "utc": "12:40:00"
            },
        {
            "day": 1,
            "flight": "AF480",
            "utc": "08:58:00"
            },
        {
            "day": 1,
            "flight": "AF250",
            "utc": "12:59:00"
            }
    ]</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section id="composite-secondary-index"><title>Composite Secondary Index</title>
      <p>It's common to have queries with multiple filters (predicates). In such cases, you want to
        use indexes with multiple keys so the indexes can return only the qualified document keys.
        Additionally, if a query is referencing only the keys in the index, the query engine can
        simply answer the query from the index scan result without having to fetch from the data
        nodes. This is commonly used for performance optimization.
        <codeblock>CREATE INDEX travel_info ON `travel-sample`(name,type,id,icoo,iata);</codeblock></p>
      <p>Each of the keys can be a simple scalar field, object, or an array. For the index filtering
        to be exploited, the filters have to use respective object type in the query filter.</p>
      <p>The keys to the secondary indexes can include document keys (<codeph>meta().id</codeph>)
        explicitly if you need to filter on the document keys in the index.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="functional-index"><title>Functional Index</title>
      <p>It's common to have names in the database with a mix of upper and lower cases. When you
        need to search, say for the name "John," you want to search for all possibilities of "John,"
        "john," and so on. In order to do so, you create an index using an expression or a function
        as the key.  For
        example:<codeblock>CREATE INDEX travel_cxname ON `travel-sample`(LOWER(name));</codeblock></p>
      <p>If you provide the search string in lowercase, the index helps query engine efficiently
        search for already lowercased values in the index.
        <codeblock>EXPLAIN SELECT * FROM `travel-sample` WHERE LOWER(name) = "john";
{
    "#operator": "IndexScan",
    "index": "travel_cxname",
    "index_id": "2f39d3b7aac6bbfe",
    "keyspace": "travel-sample",
    "namespace": "default",
    "spans": [
    {
        "Range": {
            "High": [
            "\"john\""
            ],
            "Inclusion": 3,
            "Low": [
            "\"john\""
            ]
        }
    }
    ],</codeblock></p>
      <p>You can also use complex expressions in the functional index. For example:
        <codeblock>CREATE INDEX travel_cx1 ON `travel-sample`(LOWER(name), length*width, round(salary));</codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="array-index"><title>Array Index</title>
      <p>JSON is hierarchical. At the top level, it can have scalar fields, objects, or arrays. Each
        object can nest other objects and arrays; each array can have other objects and arrays, and
        the nesting can continue. Consider the following example array.
        <codeblock>schedule: 
[  
    {  
        "day" : 0, 
        "special_flights" : 
        [ 
        {  
            "flight" : "AI111", "utc" : ”1:11:11"
            }, 
        {  
            "flight" : "AI222", "utc" : ”2:22:22" 
            }   
            ]  
        },
    {
        "day": 1,
        "flight": "AF552",
        "utc": "14:41:00”
        }
    ]</codeblock>With
        a rich structure as seen in the array schedule, here's how you index a particular array or a
        field within the sub-object.
        <codeblock>CREATE INDEX travel_sched ON `travel-sample`
 (ALL DISTINCT ARRAY v.day FOR v IN schedule END);</codeblock></p>
      <p>This index key is an expression on the array to clearly reference only the elements that
        need to be indexed.<ul id="ul_okh_f5k_px">
          <li><codeph>schedule</codeph> - the array we’re dereferencing into.</li>
          <li><codeph>v</codeph> - the variable implicitly declared to reference each element/object
            within the array: schedule</li>
          <li><codeph>v.day</codeph> - the element within each object of the array schedule.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>The following query uses the array index created
        above.<codeblock>EXPLAIN SELECT * FROM `travel-sample` 
WHERE ANY v IN SCHEDULE SATISFIES v.day = 2 END;

{
    "#operator": "DistinctScan",
    "scan": {
        "#operator": "IndexScan",
        "index": "travel_sched",
        "index_id": "db7018bff5f10f17",
        "keyspace": "travel-sample",
        "namespace": "default",
        "spans": [
        {
            "Range": {
                "High": [
                "2"
                ],
                "Inclusion": 3,
                "Low": [
                "2"
                ]
                }
            }
        ],
        "using": "gsi"
    }</codeblock></p>
      <p>Because the key is a generalized expression, it provides the flexibility to apply
        additional logic and processing on the data before indexing. For example, you can create
        functional indexing on elements of each array. As you're referencing individual fields of
        the object or element within the array, the index creation, size, and search are
        efficient.</p>
      <p>The index <codeph>travel_sched</codeph> stores only the distinct values within an array. To
        store all elements of an array in an index, do not use the DISTINCT modifier to the
        expression.
        <codeblock>CREATE INDEX travel_sched ON `travel-sample`
    (ALL ARRAY v.day FOR v IN schedule END);</codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="partial-index"><title>Partial Index</title>
      <p>Unlike relational systems where each type of row is in a distinct table, Couchbase buckets
        can have documents of various types. You can include a type field in your document to
        differentiate distinct types.
        <codeblock>{
    "airline": {
        "callsign": "MILE-AIR",
        "country": "United States",
        "iata": "Q5",
        "icao": "MLA",
        "id": 10,
        "name": "40-Mile Air",
        "type": "airline"
        },
    "documentkey": "airline_10"
    }</codeblock></p>
      <p>Also, since Couchbase data model is JSON and JSON schema is flexible, an index may not
        contain entries to documents with absent index keys. </p>
      <p>When you want to create an index of airline documents, you can simply add the type field
        for the WHERE clause of the index.
        <codeblock>CREATE INDEX travel_info ON `travel-sample`(name, id, icoo, iata)
WHERE type='airline';</codeblock></p>
      <p>This creates an index only on documents that have <codeph>type='airline'</codeph>. The
        queries must include the filter <codeph>type='airline'</codeph> in addition to other filters
        for this index to qualify.</p>
      <p>You can use complex predicates in the WHERE clause of the index. Here are some examples
        where you can use partial indexes: <ul id="ul_ex4_ydl_px">
          <li>Partitioning a large index into multiple indexes using the mod function.</li>
          <li>Partitioning a large index into multiple indexes and placing each index into distinct
            indexer nodes.</li>
          <li>Partitioning the index based on a list of values. For example, you can have an index
            for each state.</li>
          <li>Simulating index range partitioning via a range filter in the WHERE clause. Note that
            N1QL queries use one partitioned index per query block. Use UNION ALL to have a query
            exploit multiple partitioned indexes in a single query.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="duplicate-index"><title>Duplicate Index</title>
      <p>Duplicate index isn't really a special type of index, but a feature of Couchbase indexing.
        You can create duplicate indexes with distinct names.
        <codeblock>CREATE INDEX i1 ON `travel-sample`(LOWER(name),id, icoo) 
WHERE type = 'airline';

CREATE INDEX i2 ON `travel-sample`(LOWER(name),id, icoo) 
WHERE type = 'airline';

CREATE INDEX i3 ON `travel-sample`(LOWER(name),id, icoo) 
WHERE type = 'airline';</codeblock></p>
      <p>All three indexes have identical keys and an identical WHERE clause; the only difference is
        the name of these indexes. You can choose their physical location using the WITH clause of
        the CREATE INDEX statement. </p>
      <p>During query optimization, the query engine chooses one of the index names as seen in the
        explain plan. During query execution, these indexes are used in a round-robin fashion to
        distribute the load. Thus providing scale-out, multi-dimensional scaling, performance, and
        high availability.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="covering-index">
      <title>Covering Index</title>
      <p>Index selection for a query solely depends on the filters in the WHERE clause of your
        query. After the index selection is made, the query engine analyzes the query to see if it
        can be answered using only the data in the index. If it does, the query engine skips
        retrieving the whole document from the data nodes. This is a performance optimization to
        keep in mind when designing your indexes. For more information about covering indexes, see
          <xref href="../../indexes/covering-indexes.dita#concept_yv4_c2z_wt">here</xref>.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
