<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_iwl_zy4_1v">
  <title>cbft-bleve-dump</title>
  <body>
  <p>The cbft-bleve-dump utility allows you to print all the rows in the specified index. This is
      helpful for troubleshooting because the index or index fragments can be examined without
      access to the Couchbase Server. <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_sxy_ccp_1v">
        <title>cbft-bleve-dump parameters</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="3.04*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Parameters</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>-dictionary</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Prints the dictionary for the specified field. <codeblock/></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>-docID</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Print all the rows pertaining to the single specified document.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>-fields</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Print the field names and field ids in the index.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>-index</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Specifies Path to the index to dump</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>-mapping</codeph></entry>
              <entry>Print a JSON serialization of the index mapping.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>If none of these alternate modes have been specified it will dump all rows in the
      index.</p>
  <p><b>Permission Required</b></p>
  <p>This command line tool only access data via the file system so the user needs appropriate permissions from the host OS.</p>
<codeblock spectitle="Sample Usage">/opt/couchbase/bin/cbft-bleve-dump -mapping -index default_index_36f4f5d91743e793_1000041c.pindex/
    
{
"default_mapping":
Unknown macro: { "enabled"}
,
"type_field": "_type",
"default_type": "_default",
"default_analyzer": "standard",
"default_datetime_parser": "dateTimeOptional",
"default_field": "_all",
"byte_array_converter": "json",
"analysis": {}
}</codeblock>
  </body>
</topic>
