<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="untitled1">
    <title>Adaptive Index</title>
    <body>
        <p>Adaptive Indexes are a special type of GSI array index that can index all or specified
            fields of a document.  Such an index is generic in nature, and it can efficiently index
            and lookup any of the index-key values.  This enables efficient ad hoc queries (that may
            have WHERE clause predicates on any of the index-key fields) without requiring to create
            various composite indexes for different combinations of fields.  Adaptive Index is a
            functional array index created using the N1QL function PAIRS(). </p>
        <p>Basically, the idea is to be able to simply load data and start querying (1) using a
      single secondary index, and (2) not worrying about creating appropriate secondary indexes for
      each query. Note that without Adaptive Indexes:<ul id="ul_cvp_vcm_5z">
        <li>Only primary index can help run any ad hoc query. But using primary index can be
          expensive for queries with predicates on any of the non-key fields of the document.</li>
        <li>Each query will need a compatible secondary index that can qualify for the predicates in
          the WHERE clause. See section <xref href="#untitled1/section_w31_bnm_5z" format="dita"/>
          for details.</li>
      </ul></p>
        <p>For instance, consider a user profile or hotel reservation search use case. A person's
      profile may need to be searched based on any of the personal attributes such as first name,
      last name, age, city, address, job, title, company, etc. Similarly, a hotel room availability
      may be searched based on wide criteria, such as room facilities, amenities, price, and other
      features. In this scenario, traditional secondary indexes or composite indexes can't be used
      effectively (see section <xref href="#untitled1/section_w31_bnm_5z" format="dita">Contrast
        with Composite Indexes</xref> to understand some of the concerns). Adaptive indexes can help
      effectively and efficiently run such ad hoc search queries.</p>
    <section id="section_hz5_vvn_z1b">
      <title>Syntax</title>
    </section>
        <p><codeblock>CREATE INDEX <varname>index_name</varname>
ON <varname>keyspace_ref</varname>( (ALL | DISTINCT) PAIRS(SELF | <varname>index_key_object</varname>) )
[WHERE <varname>where_clause</varname>]
[WITH <varname>with_clause</varname>]</codeblock>When
      the <codeph>SELF</codeph> keyword is used, the adaptive index is created with all fields in
      the documents of the
      keyspace.<codeblock>index_key_object ::== {["<varname>name1</varname>" :] <varname>expr1</varname>, ["<varname>name2</varname>" :] <varname>expr2</varname>, ...}</codeblock>This
      is an object of name-value pairs of the document fields that should be indexed.<ul
        id="ul_wpr_gfm_5z">
        <li><varname>expr1</varname>, <varname>expr2</varname>, etc. are the N1QL expressions that
          are allowed in CREATE INDEX. These must be expressions over any document fields. The names
            <varname>name1</varname>, <varname>name2</varname>, etc. are the corresponding field
          names.</li>
        <li>In a simplified form, the names in the object can be omitted, in which case the
          corresponding names will be same as expressions, and the expressions must be field names
          in the document that are being indexed.</li>
      </ul></p>
        <p>For example, consider the <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> data that is shipped with the
      product and the following indexes. Sample buckets can be installed as explained <xref
        href="../../settings/install-sample-buckets.dita#topic_jqr_1rn_vs"
      >here</xref>.<codeblock outputclass="language-json">C1: CREATE INDEX `def_airportname` ON `travel-sample`(`airportname`) WHERE type = "airport"
C2: CREATE INDEX `def_city`        ON `travel-sample`(`city`)        WHERE type = "airport"
C3: CREATE INDEX `def_faa`         ON `travel-sample`(`faa`)         WHERE type = "airport"</codeblock></p>
        <p>Here, three different indexes need to be created to help different queries whose WHERE
      clause predicates may refer to different fields. For instance, the following queries Q1, Q2,
      and Q3 will use the indexes created in C1, C2, and C3,
      respectively:<codeblock outputclass="language-json">Q1: SELECT * FROM `travel-sample` WHERE airportname LIKE  "San Francisco%";
Q2: SELECT * FROM `travel-sample` WHERE city = "San Francisco";
Q3: SELECT * FROM `travel-sample` WHERE faa = "SFO";</codeblock></p>
        <p>However, the following single adaptive index can serve all three of the above
            queries:<codeblock outputclass="language-json">C4: CREATE INDEX `ai_airport_day_faa` 
    ON `travel-sample`(DISTINCT PAIRS({airportname, city, faa})) 
    WHERE type = "airport";</codeblock></p>
        <p>Similarly, following adaptive index over SELF (that includes all fields in the documents)
      is also qualified for these queries. In fact, the index in C5 can serve any query on the
        <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> keyspace, though it might have different performance
      characteristics when compared to specific indexes created for a particular query. See the
      section <xref href="#untitled1/section_u4c_gzm_5z" format="dita">Performance
        Implications</xref> for details. For example, the following queries Q5 and Q5A show how the
      generic adaptive index C5 is used to query predicates on different fields of the "airport"
      documents.<codeblock outputclass="language-json">C5: CREATE INDEX `ai_self` 
    ON `travel-sample`(DISTINCT PAIRS(self)) 
    WHERE type = "airport";

Q5: EXPLAIN SELECT * FROM `travel-sample` 
    USE INDEX (ai_self)
    WHERE faa = "SFO" AND (`type` = "airport");

Result:
{
  "plan": {
    "#operator": "Sequence",
    "~children": [
      {
        "#operator": "IntersectScan",
        "scans": [
          {
            "#operator": "IndexScan2",
            "index": "ai_self",
            "index_id": "c564a55225d9244c",
            "index_projection": {
              "primary_key": true
            },
            "keyspace": "travel-sample",
            "namespace": "default",
            "spans": [
              {
                "exact": true,
                "range": [
                  {
                    "high": "[\"faa\", \"SFO\"]",
                    "inclusion": 3,
                    "low": "[\"faa\", \"SFO\"]"
                  }
                ]
              }
            ],
            "using": "gsi"
          }
...



Q5A: EXPLAIN SELECT * 
     FROM `travel-sample` 
     USE INDEX (ai_self)
     WHERE tz = "Europe/Paris" 
     AND (`type` = "airport");

Result:
{
  "plan": {
    "#operator": "Sequence",
    "~children": [
      {
        "#operator": "IntersectScan",
        "scans": [
          {
            "#operator": "IndexScan2",
            "index": "ai_self",
            "index_id": "c564a55225d9244c",
            "index_projection": {
              "primary_key": true
            },
            "keyspace": "travel-sample",
            "namespace": "default",
            "spans": [
              {
                "exact": true,
                "range": [
                  {
                    "high": "[\"tz\", \"Europe/Paris\"]",
                    "inclusion": 3,
                    "low": "[\"tz\", \"Europe/Paris\"]"
                  }
                ]
              }
            ],
            "using": "gsi"
          }
...</codeblock></p>
        <section id="section_w31_bnm_5z"><title>Contrast with Composite
                Indexes</title><p>Traditionally, composite secondary indexes are used to create
                indexes with multiple index keys.  For example, the following index in
                C6:<codeblock outputclass="language-json">C6: CREATE INDEX `def_city_faa_airport` 
    ON `travel-sample`(city, faa, airportname) 
    WHERE (`type` = "airport");</codeblock></p>Such
            composite indexes are very different from the adaptive index in C4 in many ways:<ol
                id="ol_xds_jnm_5z">
                <li><b>Order of index keys is vital for composite indexes.</b>  When an index key is
                    used in the WHERE clause, all prefixing index keys in the index definition must
                    also be specified in the WHERE clause.  For example, to use the index C6, a
                    query to "<i>find details of airports with FAA code SFO</i>", must specify the
                    prefixing index key <codeph>city</codeph> also in the WHERE clause just to
                    qualify the index C6.  Contrast the following query Q6 with Q3 above that uses
                    the adaptive index in
                    C3.<codeblock outputclass="language-json">Q6:  SELECT * FROM `travel-sample` 
     WHERE faa = "SFO" 
     AND city IS NOT MISSING;</codeblock>The
                    problem is not just the addition of an extraneous predicate, but the
                    performance.  The predicate on the first index key <codeph>city IS NOT
                        MISSING</codeph> is highly selective (i.e. most of the index entries in the
                    index will match it) and hence, it will result in almost a full index scan.</li>
                <li><b>Complication in Queries.</b>  If a document has many fields to index, then
                    the composite index will end up with all those fields as index keys.
                    Subsequently, queries that only need to use index keys farther in the index key
                    order will need many unnecessary predicates referring to all the preceding index
                    keys.  For example, if the index
                    is:<codeblock>CREATE INDEX idx_name ON `travel-sample`(<varname>field1</varname>, <varname>field2</varname>, ..., <varname>field9</varname>);</codeblock>A
                    query that has a predicate on <varname>field9</varname> will get unnecessarily
                    complicated, as it needs to use all preceding index keys from
                        <varname>field1</varname> to <varname>field8</varname>.</li>
                <li><b>Explosion of number of indexes for ad hoc queries.</b> At some point, this
          becomes highly unnatural and overly complicated to write ad hoc queries using composite
          indexes. For instance, consider a user profile or inventory search use case where a person
          or item may need to be searched based on many criteria.<p>One approach is to create
            indexes on all possible attributes. If that query can include any of the attributes,
            then it may require creation of innumerable indexes. For example, a modest 20 attributes
            will result in 20 factorial (2.43x10<sup>18</sup>) indexes in order to consider all
            combinations of sort orders of the 20 attributes.</p></li>
            </ol></section>
        <section id="section_u4c_gzm_5z">
            <title>Performance Implications and Limitations</title>
            <p>It is important to understand that adaptive indexes are not a panacea.  There are
                performance implications and trade-offs compared to traditional composite
                    indexes:<ol id="ol_y3h_jzm_5z">
                    <li>Adaptive Indexes are built over <xref
                            href="indexing-arrays.dita#topic_hv4_sbr_w5">Array Indexing</xref>
                        technology and are bound to the limitations of array indexes.</li>
                    <li>Indexed entries of the Adaptive Index are typically larger in size compared
            to the simple index on respective fields because the indexed items are elements of the
            PAIRS() array, which are basically name-value pairs of the document fields. So, it may
            be relatively slower when compared with equivalent simple index. For example, in the
            following equivalent queries, C7/Q7 may perform better than C8/Q8. Note how the index
            key values are represented in the spans:<table frame="none" rowsep="0" colsep="0"
              id="table_rg5_h14_z1b">
              <tgroup cols="2" align="left">
                <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="3" align="left" colsep="1"/>
                <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="3" align="left" colsep="1"/>
                <tbody>
                  <row>
                    <entry>
                      <codeblock>C7: CREATE INDEX `def_city` ON `travel-sample`(`city`);

Q7: EXPLAIN SELECT city FROM `travel-sample` 
    USE INDEX (def_city)
    WHERE city = "San Francisco";

Results:
{
  "plan": {
    "#operator": "Sequence",
    "~children": [
      {
<b>        "#operator": "IndexScan2",
        "covers": [
          "cover ((`travel-sample`.`city`))",
          "cover ((meta(`travel-sample`).`id`))"
        ],
        "index": "def_city",
        "index_id": "931a0fae2fe4ef8",
        "index_projection": {
          "entry_keys": [
            0
          ]</b>
        },
        "keyspace": "travel-sample",
        "namespace": "default",
        "spans": [
          {
            "exact": true,
            "range": [
              {<b>
                "high": "\"San Francisco\"",
                "inclusion": 3,
                "low": "\"San Francisco\""</b>
              }
            ]
          }
        ],
        "using": "gsi"
      }
...</codeblock>
                    </entry>
                    <entry>
                      <codeblock>C8: CREATE INDEX `ai_city` ON `travel-sample`(pairs({city}));

Q8: EXPLAIN SELECT city FROM `travel-sample` 
    USE INDEX (ai_city)
    WHERE city = "San Francisco";

Results:
{
  "plan": {
    "#operator": "Sequence",
    "~children": [
      {
<b>        "#operator": "DistinctScan",
        "scan": {
          "#operator": "IndexScan2",


          "index": "ai_city",
          "index_id": "4c3192fc7e5b0f91",
          "index_projection": {
            "primary_key": true</b>


          },
          "keyspace": "travel-sample",
          "namespace": "default",
          "spans": [
            {
              "exact": true,
              "range": [
                {<b>
                  "high": "[\"city\", \"San Francisco\"]",
                  "inclusion": 3,
                  "low": "[\"city\", \"San Francisco\"]"</b>
                }
              ]
            }
          ],
          "using": "gsi"
        }
...</codeblock>
                    </entry>
                  </row>
                </tbody>
              </tgroup>
            </table></li>
                    <li>Adaptive index requires more storage and memory, especially in case of
                        Memory Optimized Indexes.<ol id="ol_sxn_hcn_5z">
                            <li>The size of the index and the number of indexed items in an Adaptive
                                Index grow rapidly with the number of fields in the documents, as
                                well as, with the number of different values for various fields in
                                the documents or keyspace.</li>
                            <li>Moreover, if the documents have nested sub-objects, then the
                                adaptive index will index the sub-documents and related fields at
                                each level of nesting. </li>
                            <li>Similarly, if the documents have array fields, then each of array
                                elements are explored and indexed. </li>
                            <li>For example, the following queries show that a single route document
                in <codeph>travel-sample</codeph> generates 103 index items and that all route
                documents produce ~2.3 million
                items.<codeblock outputclass="language-json">SELECT array_length(PAIRS(self)) FROM `travel-sample` 
WHERE type = "route" LIMIT 1;

Result:
[
  {
    "$1": 103
  }
]

SELECT sum(array_length(PAIRS(self))) FROM `travel-sample` 
WHERE type = "route" LIMIT 1;
[
  {
    "$1": 2285464
  }
]</codeblock></li>
                        </ol>So, the generic adaptive indexes (with <codeph>SELF</codeph>) should be
                        employed carefully.  Whenever applicable, it is recommended to use the
                        following techniques to minimize the size and scope of the adaptive
                            index:<ul id="ul_bkh_pln_5z">
                            <li>Instead of <codeph>SELF</codeph>, use selective adaptive indexes by
                                specifying the field names of interest to the PAIRS() function. For
                                examples, refer to C4, Q1, Q2, and Q3 above.</li>
                            <li>Use partial adaptive indexes with a WHERE clause that will filter
                                the number of documents that will be indexed. For examples, refer to
                                C5, Q5, and Q5A above.</li>
              <li>Create partial adaptive indexes with a selective list of fields; that is, this
                works fine as long as the field used in the CREATE-INDEX-WHERE clause are also
                listed in the list of index-keys for PAIRS().  For example, the index can be created
                by including
                "type":<codeblock>CREATE INDEX `aidx_sel_city_faa` ON `travel-sample`( DISTINCT pairs({city, faa, type}) )
WHERE type = "hotel";</codeblock></li>
                        </ul></li>
                    <li>A generic adaptive index (on <codeph>SELF</codeph>) will be qualified for
                        all queries on the keyspace. So, when using with other GSI indexes, this
                        will result in more IntersectScan operations for queries that qualify other
                        non-adaptive indexes. This may impact query performance and overall load on
                        query and indexer nodes. To alleviate the negative effects, you may want to
                        specify the <codeph>USE INDEX</codeph> clause in <codeph>SELECT</codeph>
                        queries whenever possible.</li>
                    <li>Adaptive Index cannot be used as covered indexes for any queries. See
                        example Q8 above.</li>
                    <li>Adaptive Indexes can be created only on document field identifiers, not on
            functional expressions on the fields. For example, the following query uses the index
              <varname>def_city</varname>, instead of the specified adaptive index
              <varname>ai_city2</varname>:<codeblock outputclass="language-json">CREATE INDEX `ai_city2` ON `travel-sample`(pairs({"city" : lower(city)}));

EXPLAIN SELECT city FROM `travel-sample` 
USE INDEX (ai_city2)
WHERE lower(city) = "san francisco";

Result:
{
  "plan": {
    "#operator": "Sequence",
    "~children": [
      {
        "#operator": "IndexScan2",
        "covers": [
          "cover ((`travel-sample`.`city`))",
          "cover ((meta(`travel-sample`).`id`))"
        ],
        "index": "def_city",                  / Doesn't use ai_city2
        "index_id": "931a0fae2fe4ef8",
...</codeblock><note>This
              query uses the <varname>def_city</varname> index instead of our specified
                <varname>ai_city2</varname> index because it’s a functional index expression on the
              field city.</note></li>
                    <li>Index Joins can’t use adaptive index because Index Join can’t use array
                        index, and adaptive index is basically an array index.</li>
                    <li>Adaptive Indexes do not work with NOT LIKE predicates with a leading
            wildcard (see <xref href="https://issues.couchbase.com/browse/MB-23981" format="html"
              scope="external">MB-23981</xref>). For example, the following query uses the index
              <varname>def_city</varname>, instead of the specified adaptive index
              <varname>ai_city</varname>. However, it works fine for LIKE predicates with a leading
            wildcard.<codeblock outputclass="language-json">SELECT city FROM `travel-sample` 
USE INDEX (ai_city)
WHERE city NOT LIKE "%Francisco";

Result:
{
  "plan": {
    "#operator": "Sequence",
    "~children": [
      {
        "#operator": "IndexScan2",
        "covers": [
          "cover ((`travel-sample`.`city`))",
          "cover ((meta(`travel-sample`).`id`))"
        ],
        "index": "def_city",               / Doesn't use ai_city
        "index_id": "931a0fae2fe4ef8",
...</codeblock><codeblock outputclass="language-json">EXPLAIN SELECT city FROM `travel-sample` 
USE INDEX (ai_city)
WHERE city  LIKE "%Francisco";

Result:
{
"plan": {
"#operator": "Sequence",
"~children": [
{
"#operator": "DistinctScan",
"scan": {
"#operator": "IndexScan2",
"index": "ai_city",                       / Uses ai_city
"index_id": "4c3192fc7e5b0f91",
...</codeblock></li>
                </ol></p>
        </section>
        <p/>
    </body>
</topic>
