<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_Arithmetic_Operators">
 <title>Arithmetic Operators</title>
 
 <body>
  <p>Arithmetic operations perform the basic mathematical operations of addition, subtraction,
   multiplication, division, and modulo within an expression or any numerical value retrieved as
   part of query clauses. Additionally, N1QL provides a negation operation which changes the sign of
   a value. </p>
  <p>
   <note>These arithmetic operators only operate on numbers. In N1QL, arithmetic operators have
    their usual meaning. However, in any of these expressions:<ul id="ul_dxb_523_qbb">
     <li>If any operand is MISSING, the value of the expression is MISSING.</li>
     <li>If any operand is NULL and no operand is MISSING, the value of the expression is NULL.</li>
     <li>If any operand is not a number, the operator evaluates to NULL.</li>
    </ul></note>
  </p>
  <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="0" id="table_l2l_vf3_qbb">
   <tgroup cols="2" align="left">
    <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="4*"/>
    <thead>
     <row>
      <entry>Operator</entry>
      <entry>Description</entry>
     </row>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
     <row>
      <entry>+</entry>
      <entry>
       <p>Add values.</p>
      </entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry>-</entry>
      <entry>
       <p>Subtract right value from left value.</p>
      </entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry>*</entry>
      <entry>
       <p>Multiply values.</p>
      </entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry>/</entry>
      <entry>
       <p>Divide left value by right value.</p>
      </entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry>%</entry>
      <entry>
       <p>Modulo. Divide left value by right value and return the remainder.</p>
       <p>NOTE: Modulo is an integer operator and will use only the integer part of each value.</p>
      </entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry>-<varname>value</varname></entry>
      <entry>
       <p>Negate value.</p>
      </entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </table>
  <section id="section_hgw_wj3_qbb">
   <title>Syntax</title>
   <p>There are six different arithmetic syntaxes:</p>
  </section>
  <p>
   <codeblock><varname>expr1</varname> + <varname>expr2</varname> 

<varname>expr1</varname> - <varname>expr2</varname>

<varname>expr1</varname> * <varname>expr2</varname>

<varname>expr1</varname> / <varname>expr2</varname>

<varname>expr1</varname> % <varname>expr2</varname>

-<varname>expr1</varname> </codeblock>
  </p>
  <section id="section_qqq_mq3_qbb">
   <title>Arguments</title>
   <p>
    <dl>
     <dlentry>
      <dt>expr1, expr2</dt>
      <dd>Number or an expression that results in a number value.</dd>
     </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl>
     <dlentry>
      <dt>Return Values</dt>
      <dd>A number, representing the value of the arithmetic operation.</dd>
     </dlentry>
    </dl>
   </p>
  </section>
  <section id="section_vpm_bk3_qbb">
   <title>Examples</title>
   <p><b>Example 1</b>: Select the longest flight and return its two airports and the distance in
     feet.<codeblock>SELECT sourceairport, destinationairport, ROUND(distance) AS DistanceInMiles, 
       <b>ROUND(distance)*5280</b> AS DistanceInFeet 
FROM `travel-sample` 
WHERE type="route" 
ORDER BY distance DESC 
LIMIT 1;

Returns:
[
  {
    "DistanceInFeet": 72906240,
    "DistanceInMiles": 13808,
    "destinationairport": "DFW",
    "sourceairport": "SYD"
  }
]  </codeblock><b>Example
     2</b>: Select the modulo of 5 and 3 and compare to the modulo of 5.4 and
    3.4.<codeblock><b>SELECT 5 % 3</b>;

Returns:
[
  {
    "$1": 2
  }
]


<b>SELECT 5.4 % 3.4</b>;

Returns:
[
  {
    "$1": 2
  }
]</codeblock></p>
  </section>
  <section id="section_imr_bq3_qbb">
   <title>Related Links</title>
   <p><xref href="stringfun.dita#topic_8_12">String Functions</xref></p>
   <p/>
  </section>
 </body>



</topic>
