<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="topic_8_5" xtrc="/w:document/w:body[1]/w:p[1347]" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Conditional functions for numbers</title>
  <conbody>
    <p>Conditional functions evaluate expressions to determine if the values and formulas meet the 
      specified condition. </p>

    <p>IFINF(expression1, expression2, ...)</p>
    <p>Returns first non-MISSING, non-Inf number. Returns MISSING or NULL if a non-number input is
      encountered first.</p>

    <p>IFNAN(expression1, expression2, ...)</p>
    <p>Returns first non-MISSING, non-NaN number.  Returns MISSING or NULL if a non-number input is
      encountered first.</p>

    <p>IFNANORINF(expression1, expression2, ...)</p>
    <p>Returns first non-MISSING, non-Inf, or non-NaN number. Returns MISSING or NULL if a
      non-number input is encountered first.</p>

    <p>NANIF(expression1, expression2)</p>
    <p>Returns NaN if expression1 = expression2, otherwise returns expression1. Returns MISSING or
      NULL if either input is MISSING or NULL.</p>

    <p>NEGINFIF(expression1, expression2)</p>
    <p>Returns NegInf if expression1 = expression2, otherwise returns expression1. Returns MISSING
      or NULL if either input is MISSING or NULL.</p>

    <p>POSINFIF(expression1, expression2)</p>
    <p>Returns PosInf if expression1 = expression2, otherwise returns expression1. Returns MISSING
      or NULL if either input is MISSING or NULL.</p>

  </conbody>
</concept>