<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="topic_7_3" xml:lang="en-US">
	<title id="title__Toc272567251">Conditional operators</title>
	<conbody>
		<p>Case expressions evaluate conditional logic in an expression. </p>
		<p>
			<i>case-expr:</i>
		</p>
		<codeblock>simple-case-expression | searched-case-expression</codeblock>

		<section>
			<title>Simple case expressions</title>

			<p>
				<i>simple-case-expr:</i>
			</p>
<codeblock>CASE expression  ( WHEN expression THEN expression) 
     [ ( WHEN expression THEN expression) ]* 
     [  ELSE expression ]  END</codeblock>

			<p>Simple case expressions allow for conditional matching within an expression. The
				evaluation process is as follows:</p>

			<ul>
				<li>The first WHEN expression is evaluated. If it is equal to the search expression, the
					result of this expression is the THEN expression.</li>
				<li>If it is not equal, subsequent WHEN clauses are evaluated in the same manner. </li>
				<li>If none of the WHEN expressions are equal to the search expression, then the result
					of the CASE expression is the ELSE expression.</li>
				<li>If no ELSE expression was provided, the result is NULL.</li>

			</ul>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Searched case expressions</title>
			<p>
				<i>searched-case-expression:</i>
			</p>
			<codeblock>CASE  ( WHEN  condition THEN expression) 
       [( WHEN  condition THEN expression ) ]*
       [ ELSE  expression ] END </codeblock>

			<p>Searched case expressions allow for conditional logic within an expression. The
				evaluation process is as follows:</p>


			<ul>
				<li>The first WHEN expression is evaluated.</li>
				<li>If TRUE, the result of this expression is the THEN expression.</li>
				<li>If not TRUE, subsequent WHEN clauses are evaluated in the same manner. </li>
				<li>If none of the WHEN clauses evaluate to TRUE, then the result of the expression is
					the ELSE expression.</li>
				<li>If no ELSE expression was provided, the result is NULL.</li>
			</ul>

			<p>Example</p>
			<p>The following example uses a CASE clause to handle documents that do not have a ship
				date. This scans all orders. If an order has a shipped-on date, it is provided in the
				result set. If an order does not have a shipped-on date, default text appears.</p>

<codeblock>SELECT
   CASE WHEN `shipped-on` 
   IS NOT NULL THEN `shipped-on` 
   ELSE "not-shipped-yet" 
   END 
   AS shipped 
   FROM orders</codeblock>

			<p>Returns</p>

			<codeblock>{ "shipped": "2013/01/02" },
{ "shipped": "2013/01/12" },
{ "shipped": "not-shipped-yet" },</codeblock>
		</section>

	</conbody>
</concept>
