<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_yzq_ktc_np">
 <title>DELETE </title>
 
 <conbody>
     <p>DELETE immediately removes the specified document from your keyspace. DELETE uses the
            following
            syntax:<codeblock>DELETE FROM <varname>keyspace-ref</varname> 
[<varname>USE KEYS clause</varname>] 
[<varname>WHERE clause</varname>] 
[<varname>LIMIT clause</varname>] 
[<varname>RETURNING clause</varname>] </codeblock></p> 
  <p><b>keyspace-ref</b></p>
        <p>Specifies the data source from which to delete the document. You can add an optional
            namespace name to the keyspace name in this way:</p>
  <codeblock>[ (<varname>namespace-name</varname> :)] <varname>keyspace-name</varname></codeblock>
        <p>For example,<codeph> main:customer </codeph>indicates the customer keyspace in the main
            namespace. If the namespace name is omitted, the default namespace in the current
            session is used.</p> 
  <p><b>USE KEYS clause</b>
            <i>(optional)</i></p>
        <p>Specifies the keys of the data items to be deleted.  Keys can be any expression.</p>
  <codeblock>USE [PRIMARY] KEYS <varname>expression</varname></codeblock>   
  <p><b>WHERE clause</b>
            <i>(optional)</i></p>
        <p>Specifies the condition that needs to be met for data to be deleted.</p>
  <codeblock>WHERE <varname>condition</varname></codeblock> 
  <p><b>LIMIT clause</b>
            <i>(optional)</i></p>
        <p>Specifies the greatest number of objects that can be deleted.  This clause must have a
            non-negative integer as its upper bound.</p>
  <codeblock>LIMIT <varname>expression</varname></codeblock>
  <p><b>RETURNING clause</b>
            <i>(optional)</i></p>
        <p>Returns the data you deleted as specified in the
            <varname>result_expression</varname>.</p>
  <codeblock>RETURNING (<varname>result-expression</varname> [, <varname>result-expression</varname>]* | [RAW | ELEMENT ] <varname>expression</varname>)</codeblock>
        <p><b>RBAC Privileges</b></p>
        <p>User executing the DELETE statement must have the <i>Query Delete</i> privilege granted
            on the target keyspace/bucket. If the statement has any RETURNING clauses that need data
            read, then the <i>Query Select </i>privilege is also required on the keyspaces referred
            in the respective clauses. For more details about user roles, see <xref
                href="../../security/security-authorization.dita#authorization"/>.</p>
        <p>In summary, see the below table.<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1"
                id="table_rv2_rvn_xz">
                <title/>
                <tgroup cols="4" align="center">
                    <colspec colname="newCol1" colnum="1" colwidth="20pt"/>
                    <colspec colname="c1" colnum="2" colwidth="99pt"/>
                    <colspec colname="c2" colnum="3" colwidth="88.65pt"/>
                    <colspec colname="c3" colnum="4" colwidth="88.65pt"/>
                    <thead>
                        <row>
                            <entry>#</entry>
                            <entry>Delete Query Contains</entry>
                            <entry>Query Delete Permissions Needed</entry>
                            <entry>Query Select Permissions Needed</entry>
                        </row>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Q1</entry>
                            <entry>WHERE clause</entry>
                            <entry>Yes</entry>
                            <entry>No</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Q2</entry>
                            <entry>a subquery</entry>
                            <entry>Yes</entry>
                            <entry>Yes</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Q3</entry>
                            <entry>RETURNING clause</entry>
                            <entry>Yes</entry>
                            <entry>Yes</entry>
                        </row>
                    </tbody>
                </tgroup>
            </table></p>
        <p><b>Q1 Examples</b> that require the <i>Query Delete</i> privilege on
                <codeph>`travel-sample`</codeph>.</p>
        <p>
            <codeblock>DELETE FROM `travel-sample` WHERE type = "hotel";

DELETE FROM `travel-sample` WHERE type = "hotel" RETURNING *;</codeblock>
        </p>
        <p><b>Q1 Example</b> that requires the <i>Query Delete</i> privilege on
                <codeph>`travel-sample`</codeph> and on <codeph>`beer-sample`</codeph>.</p>
        <p>
            <codeblock>DELETE FROM `travel-sample` WHERE city 
IN (SELECT raw city FROM `beer-sample` WHERE city IS NOT MISSING);</codeblock>
        </p>
        <p><b>Q2 Example</b> that requires the <i>Query Delete</i> and <i>Query Select</i> privilege
            on <codeph>`travel-sample`</codeph>.</p>
        <p>
            <codeblock>DELETE FROM `travel-sample` 
WHERE city =  (SELECT MAX(city) FROM `travel-sample`</codeblock>
        </p>
        <p><b>Q3 Example</b> that requires the <i>Query Delete</i> and <i>Query Select</i> privilege
            on <codeph>`travel-sample`</codeph>.</p>
        <p>
            <codeblock>DELETE FROM `travel-sample` 
WHERE city = "San Francisco" 
RETURNING meta().id</codeblock>
        </p>
        <p><b>Example 4</b>:  Query that deletes product10.</p>
  <codeblock>DELETE FROM product p USE KEYS "product10" RETURNING p

"results": [
    {
        "p": {
            "categories": [
                "Luggage"
            ],
            "color": "sky blue",
            "dateAdded": "2014-05-06T15:52:18Z",
            "dateModified": "2014-05-06T15:52:18Z",
            "description": "This product is available on 
                \u003ca target=\"_blank\" 
                href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/
                B005HNKFSM/ref=s9_hps_bw_g198_ir011?pf_rd_m=ATVPDKIKX0DER\
                u0026pf_rd_s=merchandised-search-5\u0026pf_
                rd_r=D182EDFE2F434403B401\u0026pf_rd_t=101\
                u0026pf_rd_p=1486061902\u0026pf_rd_i=15743161
                \"\u003eAmazon.com\u003c/a\u003e.",
            "imageURL": "http://ecx.images-amazon.com/
                images/I/51KiHy-Y-2L._SY220_.jpg",
            "name": "Briggs \
                u0026 Riley Luggage Executive Clamshell Backpack",
            "productId": "product10",
            "reviewList": [
                "review47",
                "review873",
                "review1224",
                "review2203",
                "review2242",
                "review6162",
                "review6825",
                "review7300",
                "review9934"
            ],
            "type": "product",
            "unitPrice": 231.2
        }
    }
]</codeblock>
  <p><b>Example 5</b>:  Query that deletes the product that is priced at 5.25.</p>
 <codeblock>DELETE FROM product p 
WHERE p.unitPrice = 5.25 
RETURNING p.productId

"results": [
        {
            "productId": "product99"
        }
    ]</codeblock> 
  
 </conbody>
</concept>
