<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_g1j_rth_rq">
 <title>DROP PRIMARY INDEX</title>

 <conbody>
 	
 	<p>The DROP PRIMARY INDEX statement allows you to drop an unnamed primary indexes.</p>
 	<note type="important">Named primary indexes that are created using CREATE PRIMARY INDEX, can only be dropped using the DROP INDEX command.</note>
 	
 	
<p><i> 	drop-primary-index:
</i></p> 	<codeblock>DROP PRIMARY INDEX ON named_keyspace_ref [USING GSI|VIEW];</codeblock>
 	
 	
<p><i> 	named-keyspace-ref(expression[,expression]*)
</i></p> 	<codeblock>[ namespace-name :] keyspace-name</codeblock> 
 	
 	
 	<p><i>keyspace-name:</i></p>
 	<p>identifier that refers to the bucket name. Specifies the bucket as source for which the index needs to be created. You can add an optional namespace name to the keyspace name in this way:</p>
 
 
<p><i> namespace-name : keyspace-name
</i></p> 	<p>For example, main:customer indicates the customer keyspace in the main namespace. If the namespace name is omitted, the default namespace in the current session is used.</p>

<p><i>USING GSI | VIEW</i></p>
 	<p>USING clause specify the index type to use. Indexes can be created using GSI or views. If USING
      clause is not specified, by default GSI is used as the indexer.</p>
 
 <section><title>Example</title>
 	<p>The following example creates a primary index on the beer-sample bucket. Once the index creation statement comes back, system:indexes is queried for status of the index.</p>
 	<codeblock>CREATE PRIMARY INDEX ON `beer-sample` USING GSI;
SELECT * FROM system:indexes;</codeblock>
<p> 	Subsequently, the unnamed primary index is dropped with the following statement and it no longer is reported in the system:indexes output.
</p> 	<codeblock>DROP PRIMARY INDEX ON `beer-sample` USING GSI;
SELECT * FROM system:indexes;</codeblock>	</section>
 	
 	
 	
 	
 	
 <!-- 	
  <p>The DROP PRIMARY INDEX statement allows you to drop the primary index created on the keyspace 
   specified by named-keyspace-ref. </p>
  <p><i>drop-primary-index:</i></p>
<codeblock>DROP PRIMARY INDEX ON named-keyspace-ref
 </codeblock>

  <p><i>named-keyspace-ref:</i></p>
  <codeblock>[ namespace-name : ]  keyspace-name
</codeblock>
  
  <p><i>keyspace-name:</i></p>
  <codeblock>identifier</codeblock>
  
  <p>Specifies the keyspace from which the index needs to be dropped.
   You can add an optional namespace-name to the keyspace-name in this way:
  </p>
<codeblock>namespace-name : keyspace-name.</codeblock>
  <p>For example, main:customer indicates the customer keyspace in the main namespace. 
   If the namespace is omitted, the default namespace in the current session is used.
  </p>
  <p>Example:</p>
  <p>This example drops the primary index on the keyspace. You can prefix the keyspace-name with the
   namespace-name, for example, <codeph>people:contacts</codeph>.</p>
  <codeblock>DROP PRIMARY INDEX ON contacts</codeblock>
   -->

 </conbody>
</concept>
