<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_jbf_qth_rq">
 <title>DROP INDEX statement</title>

 <conbody>
 

<p>The DROP INDEX statement allows you to drop a named primary or secondary index. You can drop unnamed primary indexes using the DROP PRIMARY INDEX statement.</p>
 <p><i>drop-index:</i></p>
<codeblock> DROP INDEX named_keyspace_ref.index_name 
 [USING GSI | VIEW];</codeblock>
 <p><i>index_name:</i></p> 
 <p>index name is a unique name that is provided to identify the index.</p>
 
 <p><i>named-keyspace-ref(expression[,expression]*)</i></p>
 <codeblock>[ namespace-name :] keyspace-name </codeblock>
 	
 <p><i>keyspace-name:</i></p>
 <p>identifier that refers to the bucket name. Specifies the bucket as source for which the index needs to be created. You can add an optional namespace name to the keyspace name in this way:</p>
 	
<p><i> namespace-name : keyspace-name</i></p>
 <p>For example, main:customer indicates the customer keyspace in the main namespace. If the namespace name is omitted, the default namespace in the current session is used.</p>
 	
 <p><i>USING GSI | VIEW</i></p>
 <p>USING clause specify the index type to use. Indexes can be created using GSI or views. If USING clause is not specified, by default GSI is used as the index type.</p>
  <note type="attention">We recommend that you do not drop (or create) secondary indexes when any node with a secondary index role is down as this may result in duplicate index names. </note>
 	
 <section><title>Example</title>
<p> Example below creates a secondary index on the beer-sample bucket. Once the index creation statement comes back, system:indexes is queried for status of the index.</p>
<codeblock>CREATE INDEX `beer-sample-type-index` ON `beer-sample`(type) USING GSI;
SELECT * FROM system:indexes WHERE name="beer-sample-type-index";</codeblock>
 
 <p>Subsequently, the index is dropped with the following statement and it no longer is reported in the system:indexes output.</p>
 <codeblock>DROP INDEX `beer-sample`.`beer-sample-type-index` USING GSI;
SELECT * FROM system:indexes WHERE name="beer-sample-type-index";</codeblock>
 </section>
 	
 	
 	
 	
 	
  <!--<p>The DROP INDEX statement allows you to drop an Index, that was created using the CREATE INDEX statement. 
   Uses the dot character (.) to specify the keyspace-ref on which the index named index-name was created. All index names are unique per keyspace, and case sensitive matching is used to match the field names and paths.
  </p>

  <p><i>drop-index:</i></p>
<codeblock>DROP INDEX named-keyspace-ref . index-name
</codeblock>

  <p><i>index-name: </i></p>
  <codeblock>identifier</codeblock>
  <p>Specifies the name of the index to drop.</p>
 
<p>Example</p> 
 
  <p>The following statement drops the index, <codeph>contact_name.</codeph></p>
  <codeblock>DROP INDEX contacts.contact_name
  </codeblock>-->
 </conbody>
</concept>
