<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_npj_srf_2s">
	<title>USE INDEX clause</title>
	<shortdesc>The USE INDEX clause supplies index hints that specify an index to use as part of the
		query execution.  </shortdesc>
	<conbody>
		<section>
			<title>Purpose</title>
			<p>The USE INDEX clause supplies index hints that specify an index to use as part of the
				query execution. The query engine attempts to use the specified index if the index is
				applicable for the query.</p>
		</section>
		<section><title>Syntax</title><codeblock>SELECT <i>field_clause</i> FROM <i>keyspace_ref</i> USE INDEX "(" <i>index_clause</i> [ USING GSI ], <i>index_clause2</i> [ USING GSI ]* ")"

UPDATE <i>keyspace_ref</i> USE INDEX <i>index_clause</i> SET <i>set_clause</i> WHERE <i>where_clause</i>

DELETE FROM <i>keyspace_ref</i> USE INDEX <i>index_clause</i> WHERE <i>where_clause</i> </codeblock>For
			syntax details, see <xref href="update.dita#topic_11_8">UPDATE</xref> and <xref
				href="delete.dita#concept_yzq_ktc_np">DELETE</xref>.</section>
		<section id="section_d4t_wkk_tdb">
			<title>Arguments</title>
			<p>
				<dl>
					<dlentry>
						<dt>field_clause</dt>
						<dd>The field or multiple fields in your projection.</dd>
					</dlentry>
				</dl>
				<dl>
					<dlentry>
						<dt>keyspace_ref</dt>
						<dd>The name of your bucket or keyspace.</dd>
					</dlentry>
				</dl>
				<dl>
					<dlentry>
						<dt>index_clause</dt>
						<dd>The name of your existing index that will be used.</dd>
					</dlentry>
				</dl>
				<dl>
					<dlentry>
						<dt><codeph>USING GSI</codeph></dt>
						<dd>[Optional] Specify using Global Secondary Index.</dd>
					</dlentry>
				</dl>
				<dl>
					<dlentry>
						<dt>set_clause</dt>
						<dd>The expression of the field or fields to be updated.</dd>
					</dlentry>
				</dl>
				<dl>
					<dlentry>
						<dt>where_clause</dt>
						<dd>The expression to filter which documents to be included in the
							projection.</dd>
					</dlentry>
				</dl>
			</p>
		</section>
		<section id="section_lrf_t1r_tdb">
			<title>Examples</title>
			<ul id="ul_jzc_bjs_tdb">
				<li><xref href="#concept_npj_srf_2s/Ex1" format="dita">Ex 1: USE INDEX with
						SELECT</xref></li>
				<li><xref href="#concept_npj_srf_2s/Ex2" format="dita">Ex 2: USE INDEX with
						UPDATE</xref></li>
				<li><xref href="#concept_npj_srf_2s/Ex3" format="dita">Ex 3: USE INDEX with
						DELETE</xref></li>
			</ul>
			<p><b id="Ex1">Example 1</b>: USE INDEX with SELECT to specify an index. First, make the index to
				be
				used:<codeblock>CREATE INDEX <b>idx1</b> ON `travel-sample`(airline) USING GSI;</codeblock>Then,
				make a query using the above
				index:<codeblock>SELECT sourceairport, airline 
FROM `travel-sample` 
USE INDEX (<b>idx1</b> USING GSI) 
WHERE airline > "M";</codeblock>Results:<codeblock>[
  {
    "airline": "M5",
    "sourceairport": "BFI"
  },
  {
    "airline": "M5",
    "sourceairport": "BFI"
  },
  {
    "airline": "M5",
    "sourceairport": "CLM"
  },
...</codeblock>Explain
					Plan:<codeblock>{
  "plan": {
    "#operator": "Sequence",
    "~children": [
      {
        "#operator": "IndexScan3",
<b>        "index": "idx1",</b>
...</codeblock><b
					id="Ex2">Example 2:</b> USE INDEX with UPDATE to change all hotel check-out
				times to be <codeph>12pm</codeph>. First, create the
				index:<codeblock>CREATE INDEX <b>idx2</b> ON `travel-sample`(type);</codeblock>Then
				run the update query with the above
					index:<codeblock>UPDATE `travel-sample`
USE INDEX(<b>idx2</b>)
SET checkout = "12pm"
WHERE type = "hotel";</codeblock><b
					id="Ex3">Example 3:</b> USE INDEX with DELETE to remove all hotel documents.
				First, create the
				index:<codeblock>CREATE INDEX <b>idx3</b> ON 'travel-sample`(type);</codeblock>Then
				run the delete query with the above
				index:<codeblock>DELETE FROM `travel-sample`
USE INDEX(<b>idx3</b>)
WHERE type = "hotel"; </codeblock></p>
		</section>
	</conbody>
</concept>
