<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="topic_11_5" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title id="title__Toc272567426">INSERT statement [Beta]</title>
  <conbody>
    <p><b>[This is a beta feature; it's not for use in production. Production systems can use the existing data service API (key-value API) for data modification.]</b> </p>
    <p>Inserts new records into a keyspace . </p>
    <p>You can create a document by using the INSERT INTO. Performing an insert succeeds only if no
      document with that name exists. If the document exists, the INSERT fails.</p>
    
    <p ><i>insert:</i></p>
    <codeblock>INSERT INTO keyspace-ref [insert-values | insert-select] [returning-clause] </codeblock>
    
    <p><i>keyspace-ref:</i></p>
<codeblock>[(namespace-name :)]  keyspace [ [AS] alias]
</codeblock>

    <p><i>keyspace:</i></p>
<codeblock>identifier
</codeblock>

    <p><i>insert-values:</i></p>
<codeblock> [ <b>(</b>  [ PRIMARY ] KEY , VALUE <b>)</b> ]  values-clause [, values-clause]* 
   
</codeblock>

<p><i>values-clause:</i></p>
<codeblock>VALUES <b>(</b> expression , expression <b>)</b> </codeblock>

    <p><i>insert-select</i></p>
    <codeblock><b>(</b> [PRIMARY] KEY expression [ , VALUE expression ] <b>)</b> select </codeblock>
    

    <p ><i>returning-clause:</i></p>

<codeblock>RETURNING (result-expression [, result-expression]* | [RAW | ELEMENT ] expression)
</codeblock>
    
    <p><i>result-expression:</i></p>
    
   <codeblock>[path . ]  * | expression [ [ AS ] alias ]
   </codeblock> 
    
    <p><i>path:</i> </p>
    <codeblock>identifier [ <b>[</b> expression <b>]</b> ] [ . path ]
</codeblock>
    <p><i>keyspace-ref:</i> Specifies the keyspace into which to insert the document. </p>
    <p>You can add an optional namespace-name to the keyspace-name in this way: </p>
    <p><ph xtrc="">namespace-name:keyspace-name</ph>. </p>
    <p >For example, <codeph>main:customer </codeph>indicates the customer keyspace in the main namespace. 
      If the namespace name is omitted, the default namespace in the current session is used.</p>
    <p><i>insert-values: </i> Specifies the values to be inserted. </p>
    <p><i>insert-select</i>Specifies the values to be inserted as a SELECT statement.</p>
    <p ><i>returning-clause:</i>Returns the data you inserted as specified in the result_expression.  </p>
   
  
    <p>Example:</p>
  
  <p>This statement inserts the value Odwalla for the key ID into the products document.</p>
    <codeblock>INSERT INTO product (KEY, VALUE) VALUES ("odwalla-juice1", 
      { "productId": "odwalla-juice1”, "unitPrice": 4.40, "type": "product", "color":"green"}) RETURNING * 

"results": [
        {
            "color": "green",
            "productId": "odwalla-juice1",
            "type": "product",
            "unitPrice": 4.4
        }
    ]
 </codeblock>
  
  
  
  </conbody>
</concept>
