<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="topic_8_9"  xml:lang="en-US">
  <title id="title__Toc272567354">Number functions</title>
  <conbody >
    <p>Number functions are functions that are performed on a numeric field. </p>

    <p>ABS(expression) </p>
    <p>Returns absolute value of the number.</p>

    <p>ACOS(expression)</p>
    <p>Returns arccosine in radians.</p>

    <p>ASIN(expression)</p>
    <p>Returns arcsine in radians.</p>

    <p>ATAN(expression)</p>
    <p>Returns arctangent in radians.</p>

    <p>ATAN2(expression1, expression2)</p>
    <p>Returns arctangent of expression2/expression1.</p>

    <p>CEIL(expression)</p>
    <p>Returns smallest integer not less than the number.</p>

    <p>COS(expression)</p>
    <p>Returns cosine.</p>

    <p>DEGREES(expression)</p>
    <p>Returns radians to degrees.</p>

    <p>E()</p>
    <p>Base of natural logarithms.</p>

    <p>EXP(expression)</p>
    <p>Returns e<sup>expression</sup>.</p>

    <p>LN(expression)</p>
    <p>Returns log base e.</p>

    <p>LOG(expression)</p>
    <p>Returns log base 10.</p>

    <p>FLOOR(expression)</p>
    <p>Largest integer not greater than the number.</p>

    <p>PI()</p>
    <p>Returns PI.</p>

    <p>POWER(expression1, expression2):</p>
    <p>Returns expression1<sup>expression2</sup>.</p>
   
    <p>RADIANS(expression)</p>
    <p>Returns degrees to radians.</p>
   
    <p>RANDOM([ expression ])</p>
    <p>Returns pseudo-random number with optional seed.</p>
  
    <p>ROUND(expression [, digits ])</p>
    <p>Rounds the value to the given number of integer digits to the right of the decimal point 
      (left if digits is negative). Digits is 0 if not given.</p>
    
    <p>SIGN(expression)</p>
    <p>Valid values:  -1, 0, or 1 for negative, zero, or positive numbers respectively.</p>
  
    <p>SIN(expression)</p>
    <p>Returns sine.</p>
    
    <p>SQRT(expression)</p>
    <p>Returns square root.</p>
    
    <p>TAN(expression)</p>
    <p>Returns tangent.</p>
    
    <p>TRUNC(expression [, digits ])</p>
    <p>Truncates the number to the given number of integer digits to the right of the decimal point 
      (left if digits is negative). Digits is 0 if not given.</p>
    
    <p>Example</p>
    <codeblock>
SELECT
    AVG(reviews.rating) / 5 AS normalizedRating,
    ROUND((avg(reviews.rating) / 5), 2) AS roundedRating,
    TRUNC((avg(reviews.rating) / 5), 3) AS truncRating
    FROM reviews AS reviews
    WHERE reviews.customerId = "customer62"          
    </codeblock>
    
    <p>Returns</p>
    <codeblock>
{
   "results": [
     {
       "normalizedRating": 0.42000000000000004,
       "roundedRating": 0.42,
       "truncRating": 0.42
     }
   ]
 }       
      
    </codeblock>
    
 </conbody>
</concept>