<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="select_raw">
    <title>SELECT RAW Clause</title>
    <shortdesc>SELECT RAW specifies to make the resulting expression not be qualified; that is, the
        standard N1QL output (same as relational engines) returns tuples tagged with an alias, and
        the RAW qualifier removes this extra layer.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <note>RAW and ELEMENT are synonyms.</note>
        <p>With a given projection list the N1QL service will produce an array of result
            sub-documents, each containing a sub-document for each element in the projection
            list.</p>
        <p><b>Example 1a</b>: A simple expression without the RAW
                qualifier.<codeblock>SELECT {"a":1, "b":2};

Results:
[
  {
    "$1": {             / added line with alias
      "a": 1,
      "b": 2
    }
  }
]</codeblock><b>Example
                1b</b>: The same simple expression with the RAW
            qualifier.<codeblock>SELECT RAW {"a":1, "b":2};

Results:
[
  {                     / no added line with alias
    "a": 1,
    "b": 2
  }
]</codeblock></p>
        <p>There are times in which this extra layer might not be desirable since it requires extra
            output parsing.  So the RAW qualifier specifies that the expression that follows not to
            be qualified, as shown in the next example.</p>
        <p><b>Example 2a</b>: List 5 airport cities
                alphabetically.<codeblock>SELECT city FROM `travel-sample` WHERE type="airport" ORDER BY city limit 5;

Results:
[
  {
    "city": "Abbeville"
  },
  {
    "city": "Aberdeen"
  },
  {
    "city": "Aberdeen"
  },
  {
    "city": "Aberdeen"
  },
  {
    "city": "Abilene"
  }
]</codeblock><b>Example
                2b</b>: List 5 airport cities alphabetically with the RAW
            qualifier.<codeblock>SELECT RAW city FROM `travel-sample` WHERE type="airport" limit 3;

Results:
[
  "Abbeville",
  "Aberdeen",
  "Aberdeen",
  "Aberdeen",
  "Abilene"
]</codeblock></p>
        <p><b>Example 2c</b>: List 5 unique airport cities alphabetically with the RAW
            qualifier.<codeblock>SELECT DISTINCT RAW city FROM `travel-sample` WHERE type="airport" ORDER BY city limit 5;

Results:
[
  "Abbeville",
  "Aberdeen",
  "Abilene",
  "Adak Island",
  "Addison"
]</codeblock></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
