<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="topic_8_12"  xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>String Functions</title>
  <conbody >
    <p>String functions perform operations on a string input value and returns a string or other value. </p>
    <section id="fn-str-contains"><title>CONTAINS(expression, substring)</title>
      <p>True if the string contains the substring.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="fn-str-initcap"><title>INITCAP(expression), TITLE(expression)</title>
      <p>Converts the string so that the first letter of each word is uppercase and every other letter is 
        lowercase.</p>
    </section>
    
    <section id="fn-str-length"><title>LENGTH(expression)</title>
      <p>Returns length of the string value.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="fn-str-lower"><title>LOWER(expression)</title>
      <p>Returns lowercase of the string value.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="fn-str-ltrim"><title>LTRIM(expression [, characters ])</title>
      <p>Returns string with all leading characters removed. White space is trimmed by default. The
        function removes leading characters from the expression that match the specified characters
        and stops when it encounters a character that does not match any of the specified characters. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="fn-str-position"><title>POSITION(expression, substring)</title>
      <p>Returns the first position of the substring within the string, or -1. The position is
        zero-based, i.e., the first position is 0.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="fn-str-repeat"><title>REPEAT(expression, n)</title>
      <p>Returns string formed by repeating expression n times.</p> 
    </section>
    <section id="fn-str-replace"><title>REPLACE(expression, substring, repl [, n ])</title>
      <p>Returns string with all occurrences of substr replaced with repl. If n is given, at most n replacements
        are performed.</p>
    </section>   
    <section id="fn-str-reverse"><title>REVERSE(expression)</title>
      <p>This function reverses a given string.</p>
      <codeblock spectitle="Example" outputclass="language-json">SELECT REVERSE("won thgiarts ma I");
[ 
  {    
    "$1": "I am straight now"  
  }
]</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section id="fn-str-rtrim"><title>RTRIM(expression, [, characters ])</title>
      <p>Returns string with all trailing characters removed. White space is trimmed by default. The
        function removes trailing characters from the expression that match the specified characters
        and stops when it encounters a character that does not match any of the specified characters.
        <codeblock>select rtrim("2013-06-22 18:33:30 330+0300", "+03") ;
          
          "results": [
          {
          "$1": "2013-06-22 18:33:30 "
          }
          
          select rtrim("2013-06-22 18:33:30 330+0300", " +03") ;
          
          "results": [
          {
          "$1": "2013-06-22 18:33:"
          }</codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="fn-str-split"><title>SPLIT(expression [, sep ])</title>
      <p>Splits the string into an array of substrings separated by the specified separator
        <userinput>sep</userinput>. If <userinput>sep</userinput> is not given, any combination of
        white space characters is used.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="fn-str-substr"><title>SUBSTR(expression, position [, length ])</title>
      <p>Returns substring from the integer position of the given length, or to the end of the string. 
        The position is zero-based, i.e. the first position is 0. If position is negative, it is counted 
        from the end of the string; -1 is the last position in the string.</p>
    </section>   
    <section id="fn-str-suffixes"><title>SUFFIXES(expression)</title>
      <p><i>Since Couchbase Server 4.5</i></p>
      <p>Generates an array of all the suffixes of the input string. </p>
      <p>Example</p>
      <p>The following example uses the SUFFIXES() function to query the airport names when a partial
        airport name is given.
        <codeblock spectitle="Create Index">CREATE INDEX autocomplete_airport_name 
          ON `travel-sample`( DISTINCT ARRAY array_element FOR array_element IN SUFFIXES(LOWER(airportname)) END )
          WHERE type = "airport";</codeblock><codeblock spectitle="Query">SELECT airportname 
            FROM `travel-sample`
            WHERE
            ANY array_element IN SUFFIXES(LOWER(airportname)) SATISFIES array_element LIKE 'washing%' END
            AND type="airport";</codeblock><codeblock spectitle="Results">[
              {
              "airportname": "Washington Dulles Intl"
              },
              {
              "airportname": "Baltimore Washington Intl"
              },
              {
              "airportname": "Ronald Reagan Washington Natl"
              },
              {
              "airportname": "Washington Union Station"
              }
              ]</codeblock></p>
      <p>The following <xref
        href="https://dzone.com/articles/a-couchbase-index-technique-for-like-predicates-wi"
        format="html" scope="external">blog</xref> provides more information about this example.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="fn-str-title"><title>TITLE(expression), INITCAP(expression)</title>
      <p>Converts the string so that the first letter of each word is uppercase and every other letter is 
        lowercase.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="fn-str-token">
      <title>TOKENS()</title>
      <p>This function tokenizes the given input string based on specified delimiters, and other
        options. It recursively enumerates all tokens in a JSON value and returns an array of values
        (JSON atomic values) as the result.</p>
      <p>The important thing to note is that first expression passed into token can be anything:
        constant literal, simple JSON value, JSON key name or the whole document itself. </p>
      <p>The following table lists the rules for each JSON type: <table frame="all" rowsep="1"
          colsep="1" id="table_gy4_jhg_gy">
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>JSON Type</entry>
                <entry>Return Value</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>MISSING</entry>
                <entry>[]</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>NULL</entry>
                <entry>[NULL]</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>false</entry>
                <entry>[false]</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>true</entry>
                <entry>[true]</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>number</entry>
                <entry>[number]</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>string</entry>
                <entry>SPLIT(string)</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>array</entry>
                <entry>FLATTEN(TOKENS(element) for each element in array<p>(Concatenation of element
                    tokens)</p></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>object</entry>
                <entry>For each name-value pair, name+TOKENS(value)</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table></p>
      <p>Options can take the following options, and each invocation of TOKENS() can choose one or
        more of the options, passed in as JSON.  <ul id="ul_hy4_jhg_gy">
          <li><b>{"name": true}</b>: Optional. Valid values are true or false. By default, this is
            set to true and <codeph>TOKENS(expr)</codeph> will include field names. You can choose
            to not include field names by setting this option to false, such as <codeph>TOKENS(expr,
              FALSE)</codeph>.</li>
          <li><b>{"case":"lower"}</b>: Optional. Valid values are <userinput>lower </userinput>or
              <userinput>upper</userinput>. Default is neither — return the case in the data. Use
            this option to specify the case
            sensitivity.<codeblock spectitle="Examples">SELECT  TOKENS( expr,
{ "names" : true, "case" : "lower" }
);

SELECT TOKENS( expr,
{ "case" : "lower" }
);

SELECT TOKENS( expr,
{ "names" : false }
)

SELECT TOKENS( expr );</codeblock></li>
          <li><b>{"specials": true}</b>:Optional. Use this option to preserve strings with specials
            characters, such as email addresses, URLs, and hyphenated phone numbers. The default
            value is false. <note>The specials options preserves special characters except at the
              end of a word.</note>
            <codeblock spectitle="Examples">SELECT TOKENS( ['jim@abc.com, kim@abc.com, http://abc.com/, 408-555-1212'],
{ 'specials': false });
[
  {
    "$1": [
      "kim",
      "408",
      "com",
      "abc",
      "jim",
      "1212",
      "555",
      "http"
    ]
  }
]

SELECT TOKENS(['jim@abc.com, kim@abc.com, http://abc.com/, 408-555-1212'],
{ 'specials': true });
[
  {
    "$1": [
      "jim",
      "408",
      "1212",
      "jim@abc.com",
      "http",
      "abc",
      "408-555-1212",
      "kim@abc.com",
      "kim",
      "555",
      "http://abc.com",
      "com"
    ]
  }
]

</codeblock>
          </li>
        </ul></p>
      <p><b>Examples</b></p>
      <p>In the following example, TOKENS() converts all of the URL data into UPPER case and also
        adds the full URL to the delimited words.</p>
      <codeblock>SELECT TOKENS(url) AS defaulttoken, 
       TOKENS(url, {"specials":true, "case":"UPPER"}) AS specialtoken
FROM `travel-sample` h WHERE h.type = 'hotel' 
LIMIT 1;
[
  {
    "defaulttoken": [
      "uk",
      "www",
      "http",
      "yha",
      "org"
    ],
    "specialtoken": [
      "ORG",
      "WWW",
      "HTTP://WWW.YHA.ORG.UK",
      "YHA",
      "UK",
      "HTTP"
    ]
  }
]</codeblock>
      <p>You can also use {"case":"lower"} or {"case":"upper"} to have case insensitive search.
        Index creation and querying can use this and other parameters in combination. These
        parameters should be passed within the query predicates as well. The parameters and values
        have to match exactly for N1QL to pick up and use the index correctly. The following example
        shows how you can create an index and use it your application.</p>
      <codeblock spectitle="Create Index">CREATE INDEX idx_url_upper_special on `travel-sample`(
  DISTINCT ARRAY v for v in 
       tokens(url, {"specials":true, "case":"UPPER"}) 
  END ) where type = 'hotel' ;</codeblock>
      <codeblock spectitle="Query">SELECT name, address, url
FROM `travel-sample` h
WHERE ANY  v in tokens(url, {"specials":true, "case":"UPPER"})
     SATISFIES v = "HTTP://WWW.YHA.ORG.UK" 
    END  
AND h.type = 'hotel' ;

{
    "requestID": "6f748683-6529-476a-bdad-82cd8e529380",
    "clientContextID": "ce5e77fc-0c27-424c-a49d-4160884f1b37",
    "signature": {
        "address": "json",
        "name": "json",
        "url": "json"
    },
    "results": [
        {
            "address": "Capstone Road, ME7 3JE",
            "name": "Medway Youth Hostel",
            "url": "http://www.yha.org.uk"
        }
    ],
    "status": "success",
    "metrics": {
        "elapsedTime": "11.872615ms",
        "executionTime": "11.843406ms",
        "resultCount": 1,
        "resultSize": 146
    }
}</codeblock>
      
    </section>
    <section id="fn-str-trim"><title>TRIM(expression [, characters ])</title>
      <p>Returns string with all leading and trailing chars removed. White space by default.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="fn-str-upper"><title>UPPER(expression)</title>
      <p>Returns uppercase of the string value.</p>
      <p>The following example shows the use of a LOWER string function.</p>
      <codeblock>SELECT product
        FROM product
        UNNEST product.categories as categories
        WHERE LOWER(categories) = "appliances"   </codeblock>
    </section>    
    </conbody></concept>
