<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="topic_8_13">
  <title>Type functions</title>
  <shortdesc>Type functions perform operations that check or convert expressions.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <section><title>Type-Checking Functions</title>
      <p>ISARRAY(expression)</p>
      <p>Returns True if expression is an array, otherwise returns MISSING, NULL or false.</p>
      <p>ISATOM(expression)</p>
      <p>Returns True if expression is a Boolean, number, or string, otherwise returns MISSING, NULL
        or false.</p>
      <p>ISBOOLEAN(expression)</p>
      <p>Returns True if expression is a Boolean, otherwise returns MISSING, NULL or false.</p>
      <p>ISNUMBER(expression)</p>
      <p>Returns True if expression is a number, otherwise returns MISSING, NULL or false.</p>
      <p>ISOBJECT(expression)</p>
      <p>Returns True if expression is an object, otherwise returns MISSING, NULL or false.</p>
      <p>ISSTRING(expression)</p>
      <p>Returns True if expression is a string, otherwise returns MISSING, NULL or false.</p>
      <p>TYPE(expression)</p>
      <p>Returns one of the following strings, based on the value of expression:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>"missing"</li>
        <li>"null"</li>
        <li>"boolean"</li>
        <li>"number"</li>
        <li>"string"</li>
        <li>"array"</li>
        <li>"object"</li>
        <li>"binary"</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section><title>Type-Conversion Functions</title>
      <p>TOARRAY(expression)</p>
      <p>Returns array as follows:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>MISSING is MISSING.</li>
        <li>NULL is NULL.</li>   
        <li>Arrays are themselves.</li>
        <li>All other values are wrapped in an array.</li>
      </ul>
      
      <p>TOATOM(expression)</p>
      <p>Returns atomic value as follows:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>MISSING is MISSING.</li>
        <li>NULL is NULL.</li>
        <li>Arrays of length 1 are the result of TOATOM() on their single element.</li>
        <li>Objects of length 1 are the result of TOATOM() on their single value.</li>
        <li>Booleans, numbers, and strings are themselves.</li>
        <li>All other values are NULL.</li>
      </ul>
      
      <p>TOBOOLEAN(expression)</p>
      <p>Returns Boolean as follows:</p>
      
      <ul>
        <li>MISSING is MISSING.</li>
        <li>NULL is NULL.</li>
        <li>False is false.</li>
        <li>Numbers +0, -0, and NaN are false.</li>
        <li>Empty strings, arrays, and objects are false.</li>
        <li>All other values are true.</li>
      </ul>      
      
      <p>TONUMBER(expression)</p>
      <p>Returns number as follows:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>MISSING is MISSING.</li>
        <li>NULL is NULL.</li>
        <li>False is 0.</li>
        <li>True is 1.</li>
        <li>Numbers are themselves.</li>
        <li>Strings that parse as numbers are those numbers.</li>
        <li>All other values are NULL.</li>
      </ul>     
      
      <p>TOOBJECT(expression)</p>
      <p>Returns object as follows:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>MISSING is MISSING.</li>
        <li>NULL is NULL.</li>
        <li>Objects are themselves.</li>
        <li>All other values are the empty object.</li>
      </ul>

      <p>TOSTRING(expression)</p>
      <p>Returns string as follows:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>MISSING is MISSING.</li>
        <li>NULL is NULL.</li>
        <li>False is "false".</li>
        <li>True is "true".</li>
        <li>Numbers are their string representation.</li>
        <li>Strings are themselves.</li>
        <li>All other values are NULL.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
