<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_axj_xtr_zz">
  <title>Index Replication and High Availability</title>
  <shortdesc>To provide the same level of high availability as the Data Service, GSIs also support
    automatic replication between nodes. These index replicas can then also be used to provide automatic
    load balancing for incoming N1QL queries.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <section id="section_tnn_hbz_zz"><title>Index Replication and High Availability with
        N1QL</title><p>Individual GSIs can be automatically replicated to other nodes in the cluster
        to achieve high availability, ensuring that an index continues to function even if a node
        hosting the index is unavailable. Queries will load balance across the indexes and if one of
        the indexes become unavailable, all requests are automatically rerouted to the available
        remaining index without application or admin intervention. </p><p>Replica indexes can be
        created in three different ways, each using the <xref
          href="../n1ql/n1ql-language-reference/createindex.dita#concept_npk_mth_rq"/> statement.
        The first of these is to specify the nodes which the index should be located in the WITH
        clause. The following example creates an index with two replicas, one on
          <codeph>node2</codeph> and one on <codeph>node3</codeph>, with the active on
          <codeph>node1</codeph>.</p><codeblock id="nodes-example">CREATE INDEX productName_index1 ON bucket_name(productName, ProductID) 
       WHERE type="product" USING GSI 
       WITH {"nodes":["node1:8091", "node2:8091", "node3:8091"]};</codeblock>
      <!-- Referenced in createindex.dita --><p>It is also possible to create an index with replicas
        without specifying which nodes the index should reside on. Adding
          <varname>num_replica</varname> to the WITH clause creates an index with the specified
        number of replicas, distributed across index nodes in the cluster. When creating an index
        with replicas in this manner, the indexer will attempt to distribute the replicas based on
        the server groups in use in the cluster where possible. This means that should an entire
        server group go down, a replica of the index should still be available on one (or more) of
        the nodes in another (or multiple) server group(s).</p><p>The following example creates an
        index with two replicas without explicitly specifying which nodes they should reside
        on:<codeblock>CREATE INDEX productName_index1 ON bucket_name(productName, ProductID) 
       WHERE type="product" USING GSI 
       WITH {"num_replica": 2};</codeblock></p><p>If
        both <varname>nodes</varname> and <varname>num_replica</varname> are specified in the WITH
        clause, then the number of nodes specified must be one greater than
          <varname>num_replica</varname>.</p><p>Finally, it is possible to create GSIs with replicas
        without explicitly stating the number of replicas in the <apiname>CREATE INDEX</apiname>
        statement. This is done by altering the number of replicas that the indexer will create,
        which defaults to 0. Changing the default number of replicas can be done using the following
        curl command and must be done by a full
        administrator:<codeblock>curl -u &lt;username>:&lt;password> &lt;host>:9102/settings -d "{\"indexer.settings.num_replica\": &lt;num_replicas>}"</codeblock></p>If
      manually specifying the number of replicas to create for a given index in the <apiname>CREATE
        INDEX</apiname> statement, then this takes precedence over the default number of replicas
      from the indexer.<note type="important">When using any of the three above methods, you must
        ensure that the number of replicas being created is less than the number of index nodes in
        your cluster, otherwise the index creation will fail. Once an index has been created with a
        given number of replicas, if the number of index nodes in a cluster goes below the number of
        nodes required then new replicas will be created on any incoming index nodes, until the
        desired number of replicas exist for a given index.</note>Once an index with replicas has
      been created, you will be able to see each of its replicas (and active) as individual entries
      in the 'Index' tab in the web console. However, as the replicas are opaque to the query
      service, you will not see these replicas in <codeph>system:indexes</codeph>.</section>
  </body>
</topic>
