<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_pvc_qbs_nv">
 <title>Internal Roles</title>
 <shortdesc>The only internal role that a Full Administrator can set up in the Couchbase system is
  the Read-Only Administrator.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  
  <p>To set up a role of the Read-Only Administrator, LDAP authentication doesn't have to be
   enabled. This role can be created only for one user using the Couchbase Web Console and REST
   API.</p>
  <section><title>Read-Only Administrator Access Privileges</title>
   <p>The Read-Only Administrator in Couchbase read-only access and cannot make any changes to the system, 
    nor can it access N1QL. The user can only view existing servers, buckets, views and monitor stats.</p>
<p>The Read-Only Administrator can do the following:</p>
   <ul>
    <li>Cluster Overview</li>
    <li>Design documents and view definitions but cannot query views.</li>
    <li>List of XDCR replications and remote clusters.</li>
    <li>Logged events under the Log tab but the user cannot Generate Diagnostic Report.</li>
    <li>Settings for a cluster.</li>
   
   </ul>
<p>The Read-Only Administrator cannot perform these tasks:</p>
   <ul>
    <li>Create or edit buckets</li>
    <li>Add nodes to clusters</li>
    <li>Change XDCR settings</li>
    <li>Create views or see any stored data.</li>
    <li>Any REST API calls which require administrator privileges will fail and return an error for
     this user.  <p>The server sends an HTTP 401 error if an unauthorized user performs a REST POST
      or DELETE request that changes cluster, bucket, XDCR, or node settings:
      <codeblock>HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized WWW-Authenticate: Basic realm="Couchbase Server Admin / REST"
       ....</codeblock></p></li>
    <li>All SDKs require that a client connects with bucket-level credentials. Therefore, the
     Read-Only Administrator cannot set up a Couchbase SDK to connect to the server.</li>    
   </ul>
  </section>
  <section><title>Add a Read-Only Administrator via UI</title>
   <ol>
    <li/>
    <li/>
    
    
    <li> </li>
    
   </ol>   
   
   
  </section> 
  
 </conbody>
</concept>
