<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ztr_rnm_lq">
  
    <title>
      Authentication Domains
    </title>
  
    <shortdesc>
      Couchbase Server assigns users to different <i>authentication domains</i>, based on whether their
      definition is <i>local</i> (that is, on Couchbase Server itself) or <i>external</i> (that is,
      by means of LDAP or PAM). 
    </shortdesc>
  
  <body>
  
    <section>
    
      <title>
        Local and External Domains
      </title>
  
      <p>
        A Couchbase Server <i>authentication domain</i> is a namespace, containing user-definitions.
        The following two domains are used:
      </p>
      
      <ul>
        <li>
          <i>Local</i>: Contains users defined locally. This includes:
          
          <p>
            <!-- Vertical space -->
          </p>
          
          <ul>
            <li>
              The <i>Full Administrator</i> for Couchbase Server.
              
              <p>
                <!-- Vertical space -->
              </p>
              
            </li>
            
            <li>
              <i>Internal Components</i> within Couchbase Server that support core functionality (for example, indexing, searching,
              and replicating), and run with full administrative privileges.
              
              <p>
                <!-- Vertical space -->
              </p>
              
            </li>
            
            <li>
              <i>Generated Users</i>, which are created by Couchbase Server as part of the upgrade process to
              5.0; each in correspondence with a legacy bucket. Each Generated User is assigned a <i>username</i>
              that is identical to the bucket-name; and either a <i>password</i> that is identical to the bucket's
              pre-5.0 password, or <i>no password</i>, if the bucket did not feature a password. Generated Users
              are created to ensure that legacy applications can continue to access legacy buckets after upgrade to
              5.0, with the same username-password combination being used for authentication.
              
              <p>
                <!-- Vertical space -->
              </p>
            </li>
            
            <li>
              <i>Locally Defined Users</i>, which are explicitly created by a Couchbase Server administrator; and
              each feature a username and password unique within the Local domain.
              
              <p>
                <!-- Vertical space -->
              </p>
            </li>
            
            
          </ul>
          

        </li>
        
        <li>
          <i>External</i>: Contains users defined externally; either by means of <i>LDAP</i> or <i>PAM</i>. Passwords
          are defined and stored remotely. Note that External usernames do not clash with Local usernames.
        </li>
        
      </ul>
    
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Authentication Processing Sequence
      </title>
      
      <p>
        When a user attempts to authenticate, Couchbase Server always looks up their credentials in the same order: which
        is <i>Local</i> first, and <i>External</i> second. 
      </p>
    </section>
    
  </body>
 
</topic>
