<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_kbr_h5g_tq">
  <title>Cluster authentication</title><shortdesc>Cluster authentication is performed with internal administrative credentials or with the Erlang magic cookies.</shortdesc>
  <body>
   
      <p>Authentication for the Couchbase cluster can be accomplished in two ways:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Internal administrative credential authentication</dt>
          <dd>This type of authentication is performed locally, using a user
            name and password. The internal server authenticates as <codeph>_admin,</codeph> which is a password
            that is only distributed to trusted processes. </dd>
          <dd>Internal administrative credential authentication can be implemented in a "plain" fashion (password sent in
            the clear), but can also be implemented as a digest or challenge-response based
            authentication.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Erlang magic cookie authentication</dt>
          <dd>This type of authentication is is performed using secret cookie values, which
          allow the Erlang nodes to execute function calls on the remote Erlang nodes. It happens
          over a straight TCP socket, except when Erlang is configured to use SSL. </dd>
          <dd>Digest authentication, which is used in this case, prevents the credential from being
          passed in the clear. It is secure, if not as strongly secure as SSL certificate-based
          authentication with secure key management. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <note type="note">Process-to-process actions that are performed not on behalf of an external client (e.g.
        replication, auto failover) should also use cluster authentication. </note>
  </body>
</topic>
