<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_sbf_kpm_lq">
  
  <title>
    Authorization
  </title>
  
  <shortdesc>
    For authorizing users, Couchbase Server 
    provides <i>Role-Based Access Control</i>.
  </shortdesc>
  
  <body>
    
    <section>
      
      <title>
        Role-Based Access Control
      </title>
      
    <p>
      Couchbase provides <i>Role-Based Access Control</i> (RBAC), in which access 
      privileges are assigned to fixed roles; which are in turn assigned to
      users. A user can be an administrator or an application. 
    </p>
    
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Example Scenarios
      </title>
      
      <p>
        Couchbase RBAC provides a secure solution for each of 
        the following scenarios:
      </p>
      
      <ul>
        <li>
          An application consists of several services, each of which has a different
          purpose. Compliance demands that each service be given a different set of read and write privileges,
          in order to constrain its activities to those absolutely required.
          
          <p>
            <!-- Vertical space -->
            
          </p>
          
        </li>
        
        <li> 
          An application is available to several different classes of user. Each user-class
          has a different set of requirements for reading and writing data.
          Compliance demands that each user-class be given no more than the minimum privileges 
          for supporting its requirements.
          
          <p>
            <!-- Vertical space -->
            
          </p>
          
        </li>
        
        <li>
          A Couchbase bucket has been defined to contain sensitive data 
          that should be accessible to only a minimal
          subset of administrators. While highly select members of the subset should be granted either
          read or read-write privileges on the data itself (for example, in order to define
          Views, set up XDCR filters, or run queries); others should be granted access
          only to statistical data provided in support of the bucket
          (for example, in relation to memory-management or performance). 
          
          <p>
            <!-- Vertical space -->
            
          </p>
          
        </li>
        
        <li>
          Test and production environments respectively require different degrees of constraint 
          to be applied to read and write access. Administrators, developers, applications, and services should 
          therefore each be granted one set of privileges for the test environment, and another 
          (more restrictive) for the production.
          
          <p>
            <!-- Vertical space -->
            
          </p>
          
        </li>
        
      </ul>
      
      
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>
        RBAC Concepts
      </title>
      
      <p>
        The following concepts are essential to an understanding of Couchbase RBAC:
      </p>
      
      <ul>
        <li>
          <i>Resource</i>: An entity, user-access to which must be controlled. Resources are
          described in
          <xref href="./security-resources-under-access-control.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Resources
          under Access Control</xref>.
          
          <p>
            <!-- Vertical space -->
          </p>
          
        </li>
        
        <li>
          <i>Privilege</i>: The right, assigned by Couchbase Server, either to <i>read</i> a resource, or 
          to <i>read</i> and <i>write to</i> a resource.
          
          <p>
            <!-- Vertical space -->
          </p>
          
        </li>
        
        <li>
          <i>Role</i>: An entity associated with a fixed set of privileges. The
          association of privileges to roles is described in
          <xref href="./security-resources-under-access-control.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Roles 
          Used in Access Control</xref>.
          
          <p>
            <!-- Vertical space -->
          </p>
          
        </li>
        
        <li>
          <i>User</i>: An identity, recognized by Couchbase Server, based on the passing
          of a <i>username</i> and <i>password</i>. A user can be assigned one or more 
          <i>roles</i>: the privileges associated with each assigned role determine 
          the resource-access granted the user. Users can be <i>local</i> or <i>external</i>.
          See 
          <xref href="./security-rbac-for-admins-and-apps.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Defining RBAC Users</xref>
          for details on how to define users by means of Couchbase Web Console. 
        </li>
        
      </ul>
      
    </section>
    
  </body>
  
</topic>
