<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="rbac_upgrade">
 
 <title>
  Upgrading to RBAC
 </title>
 
 <shortdesc>
  Couchbase provides an upgrade path, whereby users can seamlessly transition their
  activities from Couchbase Server 4.6 and earlier (which are all pre-RBAC releases) to
  5.0 (which is an RBAC-enabled release). 
 </shortdesc>
 
 <body>
  
  <section>
   
   <title>
    5.0 Migration
   </title>
   
   <p>
    Releases of Couchbase Server prior to 5.0 <i>did not</i> feature the Role-Based Access
    Control that is now provided. 5.0 administrators and developers must therefore
    become familiar with the new model, and modify procedures and
    code-routines as appropriate.
   </p>
   
   <p>
    However, to ensure the continued running of legacy applications, Couchbase Server
    provides an automated migration of existing buckets to the new RBAC model, as part of the upgrade procedure. 
    The following sections explain this migration.
   </p>
   
  </section>
  
  <section>
   
   <title>
    Legacy Bucket-Definitions
   </title>
   
   <p>
    In releases of Couchbase Server prior to 5.0, buckets could either be established on
    the <i>standard port</i> (11211), which was SASL-enabled, and required that the bucket be
    password-protected; or on an administrator-dedicated port, in which case the bucket
    was accessible by means of the ASCII protocol, and was not password-protected. (See
    <xref href="./security-pw-auth.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Password-Based Authentication</xref>,
    for details.)
   </p>
   
   <p>
    Each of these types of bucket-definition is considered below, in relation to how the 
    corresponding buckets are accessed
    following upgrade to Couchbase Server 5.0.
   </p>
   
  </section>
  
  <section>
   
   <title>
    Legacy Buckets on the Standard Port
   </title>
   
   <p>
    Legacy buckets that were defined on the SASL-enabled standard port were protected by a
    <i>bucket-password</i>. These bucket-passwords are no longer supported, in Couchbase Server 5.0. Instead,
    buckets, as other resources, must be accessed through RBAC.
   </p>
   
   <p>
    During the upgrade process, Couchbase performs forward-migration on legacy, password-protected buckets;
    so that following upgrade, the buckets can be accessed through RBAC, without immediate changes to
    application-code required. This forward-migration has the following characteristics:
   </p>
   
   <ul>
    <li>
     Any existing bucket that is resident on the standard port is <i>stripped of
      its legacy bucket-password</i>.
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical Space -->
     </p>
     
     
    </li>
    
    <li>
     For each bucket that has been stripped of its bucket-password, a new <i>user</i> is created, whose username is
     identical to the name of the bucket. This user will appear along with all others, in the <b>Security</b> screen
     of the Couchbase Web Console.
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical Space -->
     </p>
     
     
    </li>
    
    <li>
     Each new user that has been defined to correspond to a legacy bucket is assigned a password. This password is
     identical to the stripped, bucket-password of the legacy bucket; and will be referenced in association with
     the new user, in the <b>Security</b> screen
     of the Couchbase Web Console.
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical Space -->
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
    <li>
     Each new user that has been defined in this way is assigned the <b>Full Bucket Access</b> role, by default. This
     role allows the new user the same bucket-access privileges (including read-write on bucket-data) as were previously
     possible by means of the bucket-password; and is visible in association with the user in the <b>Security</b> screen
     of the Couchbase Web Console.
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical Space -->
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
    <li>
     Applications that continue to attempt bucket-access by specifying the legacy bucket-name and bucket-password <i>do not fail</i>;
     since the bucket-name is interpreted as a username, and the bucket-password as a corresponding user-password; and
     the bucket access-privilege thereby attained is identical to that attained under previous releases of Couchbase Server.
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical Space -->
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
   </ul>
  </section>
  
  <section>
   <title>
    Legacy Buckets on Dedicated Ports
   </title>
   
   <p>
    Legacy buckets that were defined on dedicated ports were not protected by a
    bucket-password. These bucket-passwords are no longer supported, in Couchbase Server 5.0. Instead,
    buckets, as other resources, can only be accessed through RBAC.
   </p>
   
   <p>
    During the upgrade-process, Couchbase performs forward-migration on legacy buckets that are resident on dedicated ports;
    so that following succesful upgrade, the buckets can be accessed, without immediate changes to
    application-code being required. This forward-migration has the following characteristics:
   </p>
   
   <ul>
    <li>
     For each legacy bucket that was defined on a dedicated port, a new user is created. This user will appear 
     along with all others, in the <b>Security</b> screen
     of the Couchbase Web Console.
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical Space -->
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
    <li>
     A notification appears on the <b>Bucket</b> screen on the Couchbase Web Console, informing administrators
     that the bucket is not protected. A further notification appears on the <b>Security</b> screen on the
     Couchbase Web Console, informing administrators that the user lacks a password.
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical Space -->
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
    <li>
     Applications that continue to attempt bucket-access by specifying the bucket-name and no bucket-password <i>do not fail</i>;
     since the bucket-name is interpreted as a username; access is granted without a password; and
     the bucket-access privilege thereby attained is identical to that attained under previous releases of Couchbase Server.
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical Space -->
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
    
   </ul>
  </section>
  
  
  
  
 </body>
 
</topic>
