<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">

<topic id="topic_hm2_qqt_sq">
  
  <title>
    Access Logs
  </title>
  
  <shortdesc>
    Access logs are used to monitor access to the 
    Couchbase cluster.
  </shortdesc>
  
  <body>
   
      <p> 
        The Couchbase access logs:
      </p>
    
      <ul>
        <li>
          Track REST or the Couchbase Web Console's accesses and can be 
          found in the file
          <filepath>/opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/logs/http_access.log</filepath>.
        </li>
        
        <li>
          Are ASCII text based, which is a common log format. 
        </li>
        
        <li>
          Allow you to retrieve the following information: 
          
          <ul>
            <li>Client IP patterns</li>
            <li>Error codes, such as <codeph>401</codeph></li>
            <li>Suspicious URLs</li>
          </ul>
          
        </li>
        
      </ul>
    
      <p>
        You can use an access log along with OS auditing on your server. 
      </p>
    
    <p>
      While the OS log shows who logged in, the access log shows whether an 
      administrator who
      logged is connected to the Couchbase Server or failed to connect. 
    </p>
    
    <p>
    http_access	The admin access log records server requests 
    (including administrator logins) to the REST API or Couchbase 
    Server web console. It is output in common log format and contains 
    several important fields such as remote client IP, timestamp, GET/POST 
    request and resource requested, HTTP status code, and so on.
    </p>
    
    <p>
    http_access_internal	The admin access log records internal server 
    requests (including administrator logins) to the REST API or Couchbase 
    Server web console. It is output in common log format and contains 
    several important fields such as remote client IP, timestamp, GET/POST 
    request and resource requested, HTTP status code, and so on.
    </p>
      
  </body>
</topic>
