<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_bgy_3ng_tq">
  <title>LDAP authentication</title>
  <shortdesc>LDAP authentication for Couchbase Server involves setting up LDAP administrators on the
    LDAP server, mapping their user IDs using the Couchbase Web Console and configuring the
      <codeph>saslauthd</codeph> agent. </shortdesc>
  <body>
    <note type="attention"><b>Remote authentication with LDAP is available in the Enterprise Edition of
      the Couchbase Server only for the Linux platform. It is not available for Windows or for Mac OS</b>.</note>
    <note type="attention">Mixed version cluster deployments do not support LDAP authentication:
      upgrade all nodes to the latest Couchbase Server release in order to use LDAP
      authentication.</note>
    <note type="important">The <codeph>SASLAUTHD</codeph> library is required to enable LDAP
      authentication in Couchbase. </note>
    <note type="important">LDAP authentication is not supported on Windows and Mac OS  environments.</note>

    <p>To use LDAP authentication, you need to properly configure SASLAUTHD using the steps
      explained in <xref href="security-saslauthd-new.dita#topic_bcf_jmq_wq"/>.</p>
    <p>There are two types of LDAP administrators: full administrators and read-only administrators.
      Both types of LDAP administrators can be enabled or disabled in the UI at any time. </p>
    <p>LDAP administrators are configured only when the option to enable LDAP is selected. </p> 
    
    <section><title>Where to configure LDAP</title>The LDAP server software is downloaded and
      installed separately on the LDAP server. This document only explains how it is configured to
      work with Couchbase Server. <p>Perform these tasks on the LDAP server:</p><ul>
        <li>Create users.</li>
        <li>Set up user passwords.</li>
        <li>Create groups.</li>
        <li>Assign users to groups. </li>
      </ul><p>These tasks are performed using the Couchbase Web Console: </p><ul>
        <li>Mapping groups as full LDAP administrators and read-only LDAP administrators.</li>
        <li>Mapping users as full LDAP administrators or read-only LDAP administrators.</li>
        <li>Validating LDAP credentials. </li>
      </ul>
  
    </section>
    <section><title>Where to configure <codeph>saslauthd </codeph></title>
    <p><codeph>saslauthd </codeph> must be installed and configured on each Couchbase Server node. </p>
   </section>
    <section><title>Setting up <codeph>saslauthd</codeph> for RHEL6+</title>
      <p>In LDAP authentication, <codeph>saslauthd</codeph> process handles authentication requests on
        behalf of the SASL library while the LDAP protocol is used to connect to the LDAP server.</p>
      
      <p>Remote authentication with the LDAP server requires proper configuration of the
        <codeph>saslauthd</codeph> agent, which must be installed and configured on each Couchbase
        Server node. </p>
      <note type="note">Make sure that you have the prerequisites for the LDAP software you are installing, such as OpenLDAP libraries.</note>
      
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Supported saslauthd packages for LDAP integration</dt>
          <dd>Install your Unix operating system with the package that is supported for LDAP integration:
            CentOS 6: saslauthd 2.1.26 or higher. <p>This binary is a part of <codeph>cyrus-sasl
            </codeph>rpm, so make sure it is installed.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      
      
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Set up the configuration file</dt>
          <dd>On each Couchbase node, create <filepath>/etc/saslauthd.conf </filepath>:
            <codeblock>$ cat /etc/saslauthd.conf
              # ldap_servers: ldap:&lt;URI&gt;:&lt;PORT&gt; or ldaps:&lt;URI&gt;:&lt;PORT&gt; for TLS protected connection
              ldap_servers: ldap://my.company.com:389
              # Specifies the distinguished name to which the search is relative. 
              # The search includes the base # or objects below. It also includes Domain Components (dc) 
              # such as in dc=company and dc=com.
              # The administrative users created in LDAP with the attribute uid are placed under the user's
              # organizational unit ou under the two domain components (example and com).
              OU=InteractiveUsers,DC=my,DC=company,DC=com
              # Specifies the search filter. The values for these configuration options correspond to the values
              # specific to the test
              ldap_filter: (samAccountName=%u)
              # Optional: specify a user to perform ldap queries
              ldap_bind_dn: CN=<b>user_ldap</b>,OU=Users,DC=my,DC=company,DC=com
              # Optional: specify ldap user’s password
              ldap_password: -sEcReTp#AssWoRd!
            </codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Configure <filepath>/etc/sysconfig/saslauthd</filepath></dt>
          <dd><codeblock>$ cat /etc/sysconfig/saslauthd
            # Just keep the default
            SOCKETDIR=/var/run/saslauthd
            # Make sure MECH is set to ldap (pam is default)
            MECH=ldap
            # Include the config file described above
            FLAGS="-O /etc/saslauthd.conf"
          </codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Test <codeph>saslauthd</codeph></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>If the connection is properly working, the user <codeph>couchbase</codeph> must have access
              to <filepath>/var/run/saslauthd/mux</filepath> to communicate to
              <codeph>saslauthd</codeph>.</p>
            <ol>
              <li>Start the <codeph>saslauthd</codeph> service (it is a good idea to set it to start
                automatically with
                <codeph>chkconfig</codeph>):<codeblock>[root@localhost ~]# service saslauthd restart
                  Stopping saslauthd:                                    	[  OK  ]
                  Starting saslauthd:                                    	[  OK  ]
                  
                  [root@localhost ~]# chkconfig  saslauthd on
                  [root@localhost ~]# chkconfig --list saslauthd
                  saslauthd   	0:off   1:off   2:on	3:on	4:on	5:on	6:off
                </codeblock></li>
              <li>Test LDAP authentication:
                <codeblock>[root@localhost ~]# sudo -u couchbase /usr/sbin/testsaslauthd -u &lt;username&gt;\
                  -p mypassword -f /var/run/saslauthd/mux
                  <b>0: OK "Success</b>"
                </codeblock></li>
            </ol> 
            
            
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
