<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_iyx_5ps_lq">
  
  <title>
    Couchbase Passwords
  </title>
  
  <shortdesc>
    Couchbase Server requires that administrators and
    applications <i>authenticate</i>, in order to gain access to data, settings,
    and statistics. Authentication requires that a unique password be provided.
  </shortdesc>
  
  <body>
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Who Requires a Password?
      </title>
      
      <p>
        Every <i>user</i> of Couchbase Server requires a password. A user may be either
        an <i>administrator</i> or an <i>application</i>. An application may be a program
        or server, or may be a simple, single command-line query. 
      </p>
      
      <p>
        The <i>Full Administrator</i>, who installs and configures Couchbase
        Server (and so has full read-write access to the whole system), defines 
        their own username and password during the configuration-process: see
        <xref href="../install/init-setup.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Initialize the
        Cluster</xref>, for details. Subsequently, this administrator can add additional
        administrators to the system; assigning a username and password to each.
        Whenever any needs to log into the Couchbase Web Console
        in order to inspect data, statistics, and settings (and possibly make changes),
        they must specify their own unique username-password combination, at the 
        authentication-prompt provided by the server. 
      </p>
      
      <p>
        An application must pass both a username and a password as parameters. Therefore, 
        Couchbase CLI commands, N1QL queries, and executables supported by the
        Couchbase SDK all provide syntax to allow the passing of a username and password.
      </p>
      
      <p>
        Additionally, a special <i>master password</i> may be designed and used by the 
        Full
        Administrator, in 
        order to manage server-secrets. See
        <xref href="./secret-mgmt.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Secret-Management</xref>,
        for details.
      </p>
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>
        What Password-Strength is Required?
      </title>
      
      <p>
        Couchbase Server provides a default password-policy. This demands only that
        the password have a minimum of six characters.
      </p>
      
      <!-- Note that we need an xref to setting-password-policy, below, when this CLI
           page has been integrated.
         -->
      <p>
        For pre-production purposes, it may be desirable to strengthen this default
        password-policy. For production purposes, it should be considered essential
        to do so. The password-policy can be set by the Full Administrator, by means
        of the Couchbase CLI command 
        <xref href="../cli/cbcli/couchbase-cli-setting-password-policy.html" format="html">setting-password-policy</xref>. This
        allows you to specify that every Couchbase Server-password should:
      </p>
      
      <ul>
        <li>
          Contain a minimum-number of characters; which can be any number between 0
          and 100.
        </li>
        
        <li>
          Contain at least one uppercase character.
        </li>
        
        <li>
          Contain at least one lowercase character.
        </li>
        
        <li>
          Contain at least one special character.
        </li>
        
        <li>
          Contain at least one digit.
        </li>
        
      </ul>
      
      <p>
        It is recommended that for production-purposes,
        a password should have at least eight characters, 
        including characters from three
        of the following five groups: lowercase letters; 
        uppercase letters; numbers; symbols; unicode 
        characters.
      </p>
      
      <p>
        Passwords should be rotated on a regular basis.
      </p>
      
      <p> You can reset any forgotten administrative passwords using the Couchbase CLI command <xref
          href="../cli/cbcli/couchbase-cli-reset-admin-password.html" format="html">reset-admin-password</xref>. <note
          type="important">We strongly suggest that you use strong user passwords, and if you want
          to enforce a strong password, you should use a strong password policy. Password
          enforcement is done during password setting and rotation.</note></p>
      
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Authentication-Encryption
      </title>
      
      <p>
        Couchbase Server can be accessed by administrators on a secure connection, protected
        by <i>SSL/TLS</i>. Additionally, the passing of authentication-credentials is
        protected at all times by means of the <i>SASL</i> framework. See
        <xref href="./security-pw-auth.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Password-Based Authentication</xref>,
        for details.
      </p>
      
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Usernames and Roles
      </title>
      
      <p>
        To authenticate, every Couchbase Server-user must specify a <i>username</i> as
        well as a password. The restrictions on username-design are that each
        should be unique to the cluster; and that none of the following characters be
        used: <codeph>( ) &lt; &gt; @ , ; : \ " / [ ]  ? = { }</codeph>. 
        Usernames <i>may not</i> be more than 128 UTF-8 characters in length; and
        it is recommended that they be no more than 64 UTF-8 characters in length, in order to ensure
        successful onscreen display.
      </p>
      
      <p>
        Each user is associated with one or more <i>roles</i>, which permit limited
        access-privileges. Therefore, once a user has authenticated, their role-assignment
        is examined, and an appropriate degree of access is granted to them by Couchbase
        Server. See
        <xref href="./security-authorization.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Authorization</xref>,
        for details.
      </p>
      
      <p>
        Note that usernames and role-names are <i>case sensitive</i>.
      </p>
      
    </section> 
   
  </body>
</topic>
