<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_bcf_jmq_wq">
  
  <title>
    Setting up <codeph>saslauthd</codeph></title><shortdesc><codeph>saslauthd</codeph> is a daemon 
      process that handles plaintext authentication requests on behalf of
    the SASL library. 
    </shortdesc>
  
  <body>
    
    <p>
      In LDAP authentication, the <codeph>saslauthd</codeph> process handles authentication
      requests on behalf of Couchbase Server while the LDAP protocol is used to connect to the LDAP
      server. 
    </p>
    
    <note type="important">Remote authentication with the LDAP server requires proper configuration
      of the <codeph>saslauthd</codeph> agent, which must be installed and configured on each
      Couchbase Server node.
    </note>    
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Supported <codeph>saslauthd</codeph> packages for LDAP
      integration
      </title>
     
      <p>
        Install your Unix operating system with the package that is supported for LDAP integration. 
      </p>
      
      <p>Make sure that you have the prerequisites for the LDAP software you are installing, 
        such as OpenLDAP libraries. On RPM-based distros, installation packages are a part of <codeph>cyrus-sasl rpm</codeph>,
        so make sure that it is installed.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>CentOS 6</dt>
          <dd>
            <p><codeph>saslauthd 2.1.23</codeph> or higher</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl><dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>CentOS 7</dt>
          <dd>
            <p><codeph>saslauthd 2.1.26</codeph> or higher</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl><dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Ubuntu</dt>
          <dd>
            <p><codeph>saslauthd 2.1.25</codeph> or higher</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl><dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>SUSE</dt>
          <dd><codeph>saslauthd 2.1.23</codeph> or higher</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>Preparation
      </title>
      <p>Make sure your LDAP setup is working by running a test <codeph>ldapsearch</codeph> as follows:</p>
        <p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">ldapsearch -LLL -H ldap://ldapserver:389 -D cn=someuser,ou=users,dc=mydomain,dc=com -w Passw0rd -x -bou=users,dc=mydomain,dc=com cn=someuser</codeblock>
      </p>
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>Install <codeph>saslauthd</codeph>
      </title>
      <p>Install the saslauthd package on your operating system. On Ubuntu, install
          <codeph>saslauthd</codeph> with the following command:</p>
      <p>
        <codeblock>sudo apt-get install sasl2-bin </codeblock>
      </p>
    
    </section>
    
    <section>
      
      <title>
        Determine mux File Location
      </title>
    
      <p>
        To communicate with the LDAP server, Couchbase Server makes use of the mux file provided
        by the saslauthd package. The location of the mux file varies, according to distribution:
      </p>
    
      <ul>
        <li>
          <i>Debian/Ubuntu</i>: By default, Couchbase Server attempts to access the file at
          <codeph>/var/run/sasl2/mux</codeph>. 
          <p>
            
          </p>
        </li>
        
        <li>
          <i>RHEL/CentOS</i>: By default, Couchbase Server attempts to access the file via symlink, 
          at <codeph>/var/run/saslauthd/mux</codeph>
          (the actual file-location being <codeph>/run/saslauthd/mux</codeph>). 
          <p>
            
          </p>
        </li>
        
        <li>
          <i>Other</i>: Couchbase Server is unaware of the location of the mux file; and by default, makes
          no attempt to access it.
          <p>
            
          </p>
        </li>
      </ul>
    
      <p>
        On Debian/Ubuntu or RHEL/Centos, if the location of the mux file is not as indicated above, or if a distribution other
        than these is used, set the <codeph>CBAUTH_SOCKPATH</codeph> environment variable to the location
        of the mux file: this will allow Couchbase Server to locate the file.
      </p>
    
  
    </section>  
    
     <section>
      <title>Getting Started with saslauthd and LDAP</title>
       <ol>          
        <li>
          Ensure that the Couchbase Cluster is running. Then, enable external authentication on the cluster, using the Couchbase CLI
          <codeph>setting-ldap</codeph> command: specifying server IP-address and port number, username
          and password: 
          
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bash"> $ couchbase-cli setting-ldap -c 10.142.170.101:8091 -u Administrator -p passw0rd --ldap-enabled 1</codeblock>
          
          <p>
            Note that <codeph>--ldap-enabled 1</codeph> enables external authentication, and <codeph>--ldap-enabled 0</codeph> disables. See 
            <xref href="../cli/cbcli/couchbase-cli-setting-ldap.dita" scope="local" format="dita">setting-ldap</xref> for further information. When
            successfully executed, the command provides the following notification: <codeph>SUCCESS: LDAP settings modified</codeph>.
          </p>
        </li>

         <li><p>Configure the <codeph>MECHANISMS</codeph> option for <codeph>ldap</codeph>.</p>
           <p><b>Red Hat Enterprise Linux, CentOS, and Amazon Linux AMI</b> edit 
             <filepath>/etc/sysconfig/saslauthd</filepath> (<codeph>/etc/default/saslauthd</codeph> on Debian/Ubuntu) 
             to set the mechanism <codeph>MECH</codeph> to
             <codeph>ldap</codeph>:</p><codeblock>MECH=ldap </codeblock>
           <p><b>Ubuntu and Debian</b> edit <filepath>/etc/default/saslauthd</filepath>, setting 
             <codeph>MECHANISMS</codeph> option to <codeph>ldap</codeph>:</p>
             <codeblock>MECHANISMS=ldap  </codeblock>
           <p>On Debian and Ubuntu, you should also add Couchbase to the <codeph>sasl</codeph> group:</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">sudo adduser couchbase sasl</codeblock></li>
         <li><p>The default configuration file used to obtain the LDAP configuration 
             parameters is located at <filepath>/usr/local/etc/saslauthd.conf</filepath>.
             Open this in your editor of choice.</p></li>
         <li><p>Set up <codeph>ldap_servers</codeph></p>
           <p>Specify URIs of the LDAP servers used for authentication, such as<codeph>
             ldap:///10.1.1.11/</codeph>, <codeph>ldap://10.1.1.12/</codeph>. Multiple LDAP servers
             can be specified in the list, which is then tested to find out whether one of the
             servers is offline. If you install OpenLDAP on the local host machine, you can specify
             the value <codeph>ldap://localhost:389</codeph>.</p>
           <p>If using LDAP over SSL, you can specify
             the value <codeph>ldaps://localhost:636</codeph>.</p>
             <codeblock>ldap_servers: ldaps://10.1.1.25 ldaps://10.1.1.15</codeblock>
         </li>
         <li><p>Set up <codeph>ldap_search_base</codeph></p>
           <p>Specify the distinguished name to which the search is relative. The search includes
            the base or objects below. </p>
          <p>It also includes Domain Components (<codeph>dc</codeph>) such as in
              <codeph>dc=company</codeph> and <codeph>dc=com</codeph>. </p>
          <p>The administrative users created in LDAP with the attribute <codeph>uid</codeph> are
            placed under the user's organizational unit <codeph>ou</codeph> under the two domain
            components (<codeph>example</codeph> and <codeph>com</codeph>).</p>
          <p>
            <codeblock>ldap_search_base: ou=Users,dc=company,dc=com</codeblock>
          </p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Set up <codeph>ldap_filter</codeph></p>
          <p>Specify the search filter. The values for these configuration options correspond to
            the values specific to the test. For example, to filter on email specify
              <codeph>ldap_filter: (mail=%n)</codeph>.</p>
          <p>
            <codeblock>ldap_filter: (uid=%u)</codeblock>
          </p>
          <p>Configure LDAP options <codeph>/etc/saslauthd.conf</codeph>:
            <codeblock>ldap_servers: ldaps://ad.example.net
ldap_search_base: ou=Users,dc=example,dc=com
ldap_filter: (uid=%u)</codeblock></p>
        </li>
        <li><p>Running automatically</p>
          <p>For sasld to run automatically on start up, you'll need to change the 
            <codeph>START</codeph> value to <codeph>YES</codeph>.</p>
            <codeblock>START = yes</codeblock></li>

        <li><p><b>Test your</b> <codeph>saslauthd</codeph> <b>set-up.</b></p>
          <p>If the connection is properly working, the user <codeph>couchbase</codeph> must have access to
            <filepath>/var/run/saslauthd/mux</filepath> (or the appropriate alternate directory for SUSE),
            in order to communicate to <codeph>saslauthd</codeph>. </p>
            <ol>
              <li>Start the saslauthd service (or set it to start automatically with
                <cmdname>chkconfig</cmdname>).<codeblock outputclass="language-bash">service saslauthd restart
Stopping saslauthd:                             [  OK  ]
Starting saslauthd:                             [  OK  ]
            
chkconfig  saslauthd on
chkconfig --list saslauthd
saslauthd   	0:off   1:off   2:on	3:on	4:on	5:on	6:off</codeblock></li>
                <li>Test <codeph>saslauthd</codeph> by using the <cmdname>testsaslauth</cmdname> script to
                  test LDAP authentication:
                  <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">sudo -u couchbase /usr/sbin/testsaslauthd -u &lt;username&gt; \
-p mypassword -f /var/run/saslauthd/mux
<b>0: OK "Success."</b>        </codeblock>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </li>

        <li>
          Restart the Couchbase service, to allow authentication through the changed configuration.
          
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ sudo service couchbase-server restart</codeblock>
        </li>
         
       </ol>
    </section>
   
    <section>
      <title>Example </title>
          <p>Putting the above steps into typical configuration files:</p>     
            <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">cat /etc/saslauthd.conf
# ldap_servers: ldap:&lt;URI&gt;:&lt;PORT&gt; or ldaps:&lt;URI&gt;:&lt;PORT&gt; for TLS protected connection
ldap_servers: ldap://my.company.com:389
# The administrative users created in LDAP with the attribute uid are placed under the user's
# organizational unit ou under the two domain components (example and com).
OU=InteractiveUsers,DC=my,DC=company,DC=com
# Specifies the search filter. The values for these configuration options correspond to the 
# values specific to the test
ldap_filter: uid=%u
# Optional: specify a user to perform ldap queries
ldap_bind_dn: CN=<b>user_ldap</b>,OU=Users,DC=my,DC=company,DC=com
# Optional: specify ldap user’s password
ldap_password: -sEcReTp#AssWoRd! </codeblock>
      
            <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">cat /etc/sysconfig/saslauthd
# Just keep the default
SOCKETDIR=/var/run/saslauthd
# Make sure MECH is set to ldap (pam is default)
MECH=ldap
# Include the config file described above
FLAGS="-O /etc/saslauthd.conf"</codeblock>
    </section>
   
   
   <section><title>Configuring <codeph>saslauthd</codeph> with Windows Active Directory</title>
     <p>A common requirement is to delegate some or all authentication to another LDAP server. Here
        is a sample <codeph>saslauthd</codeph> configuration that uses Microsoft Active Directory
        (AD) as the LDAP server:</p>
      <p>Here is a sample <codeph>saslauthd</codeph> configuration with Microsoft Active Directory
        (AD):</p>
     
     <codeblock>ldap_servers: ldap://dc1.example.com:&lt;port&gt;
ldap_search_base: cn=Users,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
ldap_filter: sAMAccountName=%u
ldap_bind_dn: cn=saslauthd,cn=Users,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
ldap_password: secret</codeblock>
   
   </section>
      
    <section>
      <title>Troubleshooting LDAP Settings</title>
        <p>After you set up the LDAP server, <codeph>saslauthd</codeph>, and LDAP administrators, likely
          causes of problems include:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>Firewall ports are not open for LDAP.</li>
          <li>The Proxy did not start or has started with an inappropriate protocol or hostname.</li>
          <li>The configuration of saslauthd is incorrect (look at <filepath>/etc/sysconfig/saslauthd</filepath> or
            <filepath>/etc/saslauthd.conf</filepath>)</li>
          <li>The LDAP filters are not correct.</li>
          <li>You can also encounter error messages from the system. These errors belong either to issues
            caused by <codeph>saslauthd</codeph> or the LDAP server.</li>
        </ul>
    </section>
 
  </body>
</topic>
