<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_qbs_wpm_lq">
  <title>Encryption on the wire</title>
  <shortdesc>Couchbase encrypts the data moving between client and server, between servers within a
    cluster, and between data centers. </shortdesc>
<body>
<section><title>Data moving between client and server</title>Data moving between client and server
      needs to be protected from any attackers eavesdropping on the connection. Couchbase Server
      enables encrypted data access using SSL for client-server communications. <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Secure administrative access</dt>
          <dd>Couchbase Server also includes support for secure administrative access, which enables
            administrators to administer the server securely through the browser using a public
            network.  </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl><dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Secure data access</dt>
          <dd>When you enable SSL/TLS, data in transit to and from the server is encrypted using the
            server certificate configured and stored in the client certificate store.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></section>
  
  <section><title>Data moving between servers within a cluster</title>Your data has to be available
      all the time (24x7x365) and your applications must be able to access that data even if any of
      the servers in the cluster dies. To ensure high availability, Couchbase Server replicates data
      within the cluster and across data centers. <p>If you encrypt all your sensitive data in the
        documents, the replica copies will be transmitted as is (encrypted) and stored. For added
        security, it is a good security practice to use IPSec on the network that connects the
        Couchbase server nodes. </p></section>
  <section><title>Data moving between data centers</title>To protect sensitive data transmitted
      among data centers in different geo-locations, use the secure XDCR (Cross Datacenter
      Replication) feature. <p><xref href="../xdcr/xdcr-data-encryption.dita">Secure XDCR</xref>
        enables you to encrypt traffic between two data centers using an SSL/TLS connection. When
        you use secure XDCR, all traffic in the source and destination data centers will be
        encrypted. Encryption causes a slight increase in the CPU load to allow for additional CPU
        cycles.</p><p>It is a good security practice to rotate the XDCR certificates periodically,
        as per your organization's security policy.</p>
    </section>
</body>
</topic>
