<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_gcz_rpm_lq">
  
  <title>
    Encryption at Rest
  </title>
  
  <shortdesc>
    <i>Encryption at rest</i> refers to encryption of data that resides on the physical media. 
    It should be used to protect the data that is routinely stored by Couchbase Server. 
  </shortdesc>
  
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>
        Protecting Physical Media
      </title>


    <p>
      Couchbase Server uses physical media to store files and indexes. If the media are stolen, 
      the data becomes vulnerable to illicit access.
    </p>
 
    
    <p>
      Therefore, to secure such data, encrypt all important data
      and index storage-locations, using <i>transparent data encryption</i>, provided by 3rd party on-disk encryption software-vendors;
      which denies data-access to anyone who either does not possess an appropriate
      encryption-key, or is otherwise determined to be outside the configured security policy. Such encryption ensures that stored
      data cannot be compromised; even if the database is stolen,
      copied, lost, or otherwise improperly accessed.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Commonly used 3rd party encryption tools include:
    </p>
    
    <ul>
      
      <li><xref
          href="https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-US/Red_Hat_Enterprise_Linux/7/html/Security_Guide/sec-Encryption.html"
          format="html" scope="external">Linux Unified Key Setup (LUKS)</xref>
        
        <p>
          <!-- Vertical space -->
        </p>
        
      </li>
      
      <li>Vormetric: <xref
          href="http://www.couchbase.com/binaries/content/assets/us/partner-collateral/vormetric/couchbase-vormetric-solution-brief.pdf"
          format="pdf" scope="external">click </xref>to download more information.
        
        <p>
          <!-- Vertical space -->
        </p>
      </li>
      
      <li>
        Gemalto: <xref
          href="https://safenet.gemalto.com/resources/data-protection/couchbase-nosql-database-solution-brief/?langtype=1033"
          format="html" scope="external">click</xref> to download more information.
        
        <p>
          <!-- Vertical space -->
        </p>
      </li>
      
      <li>
        Protegrity
        
        <p>
          <!-- Vertical space -->
        </p>
      </li>
      
    </ul>
      
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>
        Encryption Targets
      </title>
   
    <p>
      The tools listed above all allow either 
      <i>full disk</i> or <i>file-level</i> encryptionto be used. If <i>file-level</i> is chosen,
      the following Couchbase directories and files should be encrypted:
    </p>
    
    <ul>

      <li>
        Data and index file paths
        
        <ul>
          
          <li>
            Linux: <codeph>/opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/data</codeph>
          </li>
          
          <li>
            Windows: <codeph>C:\Program Files\couchbase\server\var\lib\couchbase\data</codeph>
          </li>
          
        </ul>
        
        <p>
          <!-- Vertical space -->
        </p>
        
      </li>
      
      <li>
        Global Secondary Index file paths
        
        <ul>
          
          <li>
            Linux: <codeph>/opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/data/@2i</codeph>
          </li>
          
          <li>
            Windows: <codeph>C:\Program Files\couchbase\server\var\lib\couchbase\data\@2i</codeph>
          </li>
          
        </ul>
        
        <p>
          <!-- Vertical space -->
        </p>
        
      </li>
      
      <li>
        Couchbase configuration files and directory 
        
        <ul>
          
          <li>
            Linux: <codeph>/opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/data</codeph>
          </li>
          
          <li>
            Windows: <codeph>C:\Program Files\couchbase\server\var\lib\couchbase\data</codeph>
            
          </li>
          
        </ul>
        
        <p>
          <!-- Vertical space -->
        </p>
        
      </li>
      
      <li>
        Couchbase password files
        
        <ul>
          
          <li>
            Linux: <codeph>/opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/isasl.pw</codeph> and
            <codeph>/opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/config/</codeph>.
          </li>
          
          <li>
            Windows: <codeph>C:\Program
              Files\couchbase\server\var\lib\couchbase\isasl.pw</codeph> and <codeph>C:\Program
                Files\couchbase\server\var\lib\couchbase\var\lib\config\</codeph>.
          </li>
          
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
      
    </section>
 
  </body>
  
</topic>
