<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ztr_rnm_lq">
  
    <title>
      Authentication 
    </title>
  
    <shortdesc>
      To access Couchbase Server, administrators and applications must be authenticated.
      <i>Authentication</i> is a process for identifying a user who is attempting to
      access a system. 
    </shortdesc>
  
  <body>
  
    <section>
    
      <title>
        Passing Credentials
      </title>
  
      <p>
        Couchbase-Server authentication relies on <i>credentials</i>, which must 
        be passed into the system by the user
        who is attempting access. Credentials can be entered manually, or passed
        into the system by an application. The credentials passed must
        match ones already stored and accessible by the system: if a match is achieved, the
        user is thereby recognized, and so <i>may</i> be granted access. If no match is
        achieved, the user is denied access.
      </p>
      
      <p>
        To access Couchbase Server, administrators authenticate 
        by means of a username and password. These credentials can be validated by Couchbase Server itself:
        alternatively if the Enterprise Edition of Couchbase Server for Linux is used, validation can be performed 
        either  on a 
        network-accessible directory-server, by means of the <i>Lightweight Directory Access Protocol</i>
        (LDAP); or by means of the <i>Pluggable Authentication Modules</i> (PAM) authentication-framework.
      </p>
    
    </section>
    
    <section>
      
      <title>
        Authentication Domains
      </title>
      
      <p>
        Couchbase Server assigns users to different <i>authentication domains</i>: 
      </p>
      
      <ul>
        <li>
          <i>Local</i>: Contains users defined locally. This includes:
          
          <p>
            <!-- Vertical space -->
          </p>
          
          <ul>
            <li>
              The <i>Full Administrator</i> for Couchbase Server.
              
              <p>
                <!-- Vertical space -->
              </p>
              
            </li>
            
            <li>
              <i>Internal Components</i> within Couchbase Server that support core functionality (for example, indexing, searching,
              and replicating), and run with full administrative privileges.
              
              <p>
                <!-- Vertical space -->
              </p>
              
            </li>
            
            <li>
              <i>Generated Users</i>, which are created by Couchbase Server as part of the upgrade process from pre-5.0
              to 5.0 and post-5.0 versions;
              each in correspondence with a legacy bucket. Each Generated User is assigned a <i>username</i>
              that is identical to the bucket-name; and either a <i>password</i> that is identical to the bucket's
              pre-5.0 password, or <i>no password</i>, if the bucket did not feature a password. Generated Users
              are created to ensure that legacy applications can continue to access legacy buckets after upgrade to
              5.0 or post-5.0, with the same username-password combination being used for authentication.
              
              <p>
                <!-- Vertical space -->
              </p>
            </li>
            
            <li>
              <i>Locally Defined Users</i>, which are explicitly created by a Couchbase Server administrator; and
              each feature a username and password unique within the Local domain.
              
              <p>
                <!-- Vertical space -->
              </p>
            </li>
            
            
          </ul>
          
          
        </li>
        
        <li>
          <i>External</i>: Contains users defined externally; either by means of <i>LDAP</i> or <i>PAM</i>. Passwords
          are defined and stored remotely. Note that External usernames do not clash with Local usernames.
        </li>
        
      </ul>
      
      <p>
        When a user attempts to authenticate, Couchbase Server always looks up their credentials in the same order: which
        is <i>Local</i> first, and <i>External</i> second. 
      </p>
    </section>
    
  </body>
 
</topic>
