<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">

<topic id="topic_pws_syg_tq">
  
  <title>
    Configuration Cache-File
  </title>
  
  <shortdesc>
    The client configuration cache-file records the current cluster-configuration, which
    Couchbase Server uses at startup.
  </shortdesc>
  
  <body>
  
   <section>
     
    <title>
      How the Cache-File is Used  
    </title>
    
    <p>
      Client applications use <i>libcouchbase</i> to connect to Couchbase Server. By means of libcouchbase,
      the client can react to changes in cluster-topology. Whenever the client is started, libcouchbase is
      instantiated, and checks the local filesystem for a <i>configuration cache-file</i>, containing information on the
      cluster-toplogy. If no such file exists, libcouchbase
      connects to the cluster by means of a REST method, in order to receive the latest topology-details.
      Once acquired, these details are written to the configuration cache-file, locally. 
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Subsequently, when starting, the client uses the local configuration cache-file to acquire its topology-data. If at any time, when
      using this data, the client
      attempts to access a data-item on a node, and is informed by Couchbase Server that the node is
      incorrect (due to the cluster-configuration having changed), the current configuration cache-file is duly invalidated. The 
      client then requests an updated set of
      toplogy-details from Couchbase Server; which are themselves then saved locally by the client, as a 
      new configuration cache-file.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Use of the configuration cache-file is available only through 
      PHP (not through Java or .NET).
      Therefore, to use the cache-file, add the following
      to the <codeph>php.ini</codeph>:
    </p>
    
    <codeblock>couchbase.config_cache = /tmp </codeblock>
    
   </section>   
    
  </body>
  
</topic>
