<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_omm_dxq_wq">
  <title>Configuring LDAP administrators</title>
  <shortdesc>There are two types of administrators for LDAP: full administrators and read-only
    administrators. </shortdesc>
  <body>
    <note type="important">The administrator who is configured during the Couchbase Server installation 
      (the built-in administrator) always retains the complete access to administer Couchbase Server, 
      including LDAP.</note>
    <p>Since the Couchbase Web Console can only read the LDAP database (and cannot write to it), all
      administrators must be created on the LDAP server. After the user IDs of these LDAP
      administrators have been defined, they can be mapped to Couchbase Server using the Couchbase
      Web Console. </p>
    <p>Couchbase Server supports multiple full LDAP administrators as well as multiple read-only
      LDAP administrators.</p>
  
    <section><title>Enabling LDAP </title>
  
    <p>To enable LDAP, follow these steps:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>Select <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>LDAP Auth Setup</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>. <p>The <wintitle>LDAP Authentication Setup</wintitle> screen will appear.
          </p></li>
      <li>Select the <uicontrol>Enable</uicontrol> check box to turn on LDAP support. If a user
        doesn't want to associate the installation with LDAP, this option can be turned off.</li>
    
    </ol>
    </section>
    <section><title>Mapping administrator IDs from the LDAP server</title>
    
    <p>To map the LDAP administrators using the Couchbase Web Console, follow these steps: </p><ol>
          <li>In the <wintitle>Read-Only Admins</wintitle> window, enter the read-only administrator
          IDs. </li>
          <li>In the <wintitle>Full Admins</wintitle> window, enter the full administrator IDs.
            <note type="important">Both for the full and for the read-only administrator, enter only
            one user ID per line and press <uicontrol>Enter</uicontrol> after each user ID. If you
            try to separeate user IDs with commas, these will be treated as a part of the
            ID.</note><note type="important">To enter userIDs using a CLI command, see <xref
              href="../CLI/CBcli/cbcli-commands.dita#cbcli-commands"/>.</note>
        </li>
      
          <li>Select the appropriate radio button to designate which administrators are used as a
          default: <codeph>Read-only</codeph>, <codeph>Full Admins</codeph>, or
            <codeph>None</codeph>. <p>All users have to be first authenticated with the LDAP server
            in order to have access. However, if a user ID was not entered in the UI either as the
            full or read-only administrator, that user will have a role that has been assigned as
            the <codeph>default</codeph>. </p></li>
          <li>Enter a username and a password. </li>
      <li>Click on <uicontrol>Validate</uicontrol> to test the user.</li>
    </ol>
    </section>
    <section><title>Test LDAP settings</title> To test the LDAP settings: <ol>
        <li>Sign out of the Couchbase Web Console.</li>
        <li>Attempt to log in with the new administrative credentials. <ul>
            <li>If you enter the credentials of the full administrator, the screen will provide full
              access to all functions available through the Couchbase Web Console (see the
                <wintitle>LDAP Auth Setup</wintitle> screen above).</li>
            <li>If you enter credentials of the read-only administrator, a screen with the read-only
              view will become available. This screen doesn't allow the user to enable or disable
              LDAP, or to configure administrators. </li>
     
          </ul></li>
      </ol>
    </section> 
  </body>
</topic>
