<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_bgy_3ng_tq">
  <title>LDAP authentication</title>
  <shortdesc>LDAP authentication for Couchbase Server involves setting up LDAP administrators on the
    LDAP server, mapping their user IDs using the Couchbase Web Console and configuring the
      <codeph>saslauthd</codeph> agent. </shortdesc>
  <body>
    <note type="attention"><b>Remote authentication with LDAP is available in the Enterprise Edition of
      the Couchbase Server only for the Linux platform. It is not available for Windows or for Mac OS</b>.</note>
    <note type="attention">Mixed version cluster deployments do not support LDAP authentication:
      upgrade all nodes to the latest Couchbase Server release in order to use LDAP
      authentication.</note>
    <note type="important">The <codeph>SASLAUTHD</codeph> library is required to enable LDAP
      authentication in Couchbase. </note>
    <note type="important">LDAP authentication is not supported on Windows and Mac OS  environments.</note>

    <p>To use LDAP authentication, you need to properly configure SASLAUTHD using the steps
      explained in <xref href="security-saslauthd.dita#topic_bcf_jmq_wq"/>.</p>
    <p>There are two types of LDAP administrators: full administrators and read-only administrators.
      Both types of LDAP administrators can be enabled or disabled in the UI at any time. </p>
    <p>LDAP administrators are configured only when the option to enable LDAP is selected. </p> 
    
    <section><title>Where to configure LDAP</title>The LDAP server software is downloaded and
      installed separately on the LDAP server. This document only explains how it is configured to
      work with Couchbase Server. <p>Perform these tasks on the LDAP server:</p><ul>
        <li>Create users.</li>
        <li>Set up user passwords.</li>
        <li>Create groups.</li>
        <li>Assign users to groups. </li>
      </ul><p>These tasks are performed using the Couchbase Web Console: </p><ul>
        <li>Mapping groups as full LDAP administrators and read-only LDAP administrators.</li>
        <li>Mapping users as full LDAP administrators or read-only LDAP administrators.</li>
        <li>Validating LDAP credentials. </li>
      </ul>
  
    </section>
    <section><title>Where to configure <codeph>saslauthd </codeph></title>
    <p><codeph>saslauthd </codeph> must be installed and configured on each Couchbase Server node. </p>
   </section>
    
  </body>
</topic>
