<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_iptables">
 
 <title>
  Network and ACLs
 </title>
 <shortdesc>
  Attaining a fully secure Couchbase Server network-environment requires 
  the 
  proper configuration 
  of IP tables and ports; the use of <i>IPSec</i>; the establishment of 
  firewalls; the limiting of
  access to critical files; and the secure maintenance of passwords.
 </shortdesc>
 
 <body>
  
  <section>
   <title>
    Establishing Firewalls and Protecting Files
   </title>
   
   <p>
    The following measures are strongly recommended:
   </p>
   
   <ul>
    
    <li>
     Set up a firewall to block <codeph>epmd</codeph> port 4369 from access from
     outside the
     cluster-network.
     
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical space -->
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
    <li>
     Set up a firewall to block <codeph>erlang</codeph> ports from 
     access from outside the cluster-network. These ports are configurable: 
     in the default installation, their range is:
     21100 to 21299.
     
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical space -->
     </p>
    </li>
    
    <li>
     Restrict access to the following directories:
     
     <ul>
      
     <li>
     
     <p> 
      On Linux:
      <codeph>/opt/couchbase</codeph>
     </p>
      
      <p>
       <!-- Vertical space -->
      </p>
      
     </li>
      
      <li>
     
       <p> 
        On Mac OS X:
        <codeph>/Users/&lt;user>/Library/Application Support/Couchbase/var/lib/couchbase</codeph>,
        and
        <codeph>/Applications/Couchbase Server.app/Contents/Resources/couchbase-core</codeph>
       </p>
        
        <p>
         <!-- Vertical space -->
        </p>
       
      </li>
      
      <li>
      

       <p> 
        On Windows (assuming the default installation-location 
        has been used): <codeph>C:\Program Files\Couchbase Server\</codeph>
       </p>     
        
        <p>
         <!-- Vertical space -->
        </p>

      </li>
      
     </ul>
     
    </li>
    
    <li>
     Ensure the confidentiality of passwords defined by the Full Administrator,
     at cluster-initiallization; of all others used for the 
     <b>Admin</b> and <b>Cluster Admin</b> roles; and of the 
     <i>master password</i>. See <xref
      href="secret-mgmt.dita#topic_s2r_2yt_gy"/> for details on how
     to define and use the master password.
    </li>

    
   </ul>
   
  </section>
  
  
  
  <section>
   <title>
    Securing the Network
   </title>
  
  <p>
   To secure the network on which your Couchbase Server-cluster resides:
  </p>
   
  <ul>
   
   <li>
    Allow administrative access to Couchbase Server only through 
    specific machines, such as <i>jump servers</i>. To perform auditing 
    on access-attempts made from these machines, turn on the OS-level 
    auditing facility on each.
    
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical space -->
     </p>
   </li>
   
   <li>
    Use IPSec on your local network. For guidance, consult the following online 
    information-resources:
    
    <p>
     <!-- Vertical space -->
    </p>
    
    <ul>
     <li>
      <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ipsec" format="html">About IPSec</xref>
      
     </li>
     
     <li>
      <xref href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3hve3ZQJIdk" format="html">Configuring IPSec on
       Windows</xref>
      
     </li>
     
     <li>
      <xref href="http://www.infond.fr/2010/04/basics-9-tutorial-ipsec-transport-mode.html"
       format="html">Configuring IPSec on Linux</xref>

     </li>
     
    </ul>
   </li>
  </ul>
  </section>
  
  <section>
   
   <title>
    Controlling Access to Files
   </title>
   
   <p>
    To restrict user-access to files and
    directories, traditional file-permissions can be used. Additionally, 
    RedHat Linux provides the following options:
   </p>
   <ul>
    
    <li>
      <xref
      href="https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-US/Red_Hat_Enterprise_Linux/6/html/Security-Enhanced_Linux/"
      format="html" scope="external">Security Enhanced Linux</xref>
     
    </li>
    
    <li><xref
      href="https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-US/Red_Hat_Enterprise_Linux/6/html/Storage_Administration_Guide/ch-acls.html"
      format="html" scope="external">Access Control Lists</xref>.
     
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical space -->
     </p>
    </li>
    
   </ul>

  </section>
  
  <section>
   
   <title>
    Configuring IP Tables
   </title>
   
   <p>
    SSH-access to Couchbase Server
    and access to the Couchbase Server administrative ports (8091 and 8092) 
    can be restricted to specified machines. Such restrictions 
    can be established either at the network or 
    at the system level,
    using <i>IP tables rules</i>. Specifically, you can either: 
   </p>
   
   <ul>
    
    <li>
     Execute the <cmdname>iptables</cmdname> command.
    </li>
    
    <li>
     Edit the file <filepath>/etc/sysconfig/iptables</filepath>:
     <codeblock>##allow everyone to access port 80 and 443##
      -A INPUT -m state --state NEW -p tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
      -A INPUT -m state --state NEW -p tcp --dport 443 -j ACCEPT</codeblock>
    </li>
    
   </ul>
   
   <p>
    For more information, see
    <xref
     href="https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-US/Red_Hat_Enterprise_Linux/6/html/Security_Guide/sect-Security_Guide-IPTables.html"
     format="html" scope="external">IP tables rules</xref>. Additionally, a
    sample of IP tables rules can be found in <xref
     href="http://blog.couchbase.com/iptables-firewall-settings-couchbase-db-and-couchbase-mobile-syncgateway"
     format="html" scope="external">this blog</xref>. 
   </p>
   
  </section>
  
  <section>
   <title>
    Important Couchbase Server-Ports
   </title>
   
   <p>
    The following table lists a subset of Couchbase Server ports, access to
    which may need to be controlled. For a complete list of Couchbase Server
    ports, see <xref
     href="../install/install-ports.dita#topic2659"/>.
   </p>
   
   <p>
    <!-- Vertical space -->
   </p>
   <table>
    
    <title>Important Couchbase Ports</title>
    <tgroup cols="4">
     <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
     <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2.06*"/>
     <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.01*"/>
     <colspec colname="col4" colwidth="1.93*"/>
     <thead>
      <row>
       <entry>Port</entry>
       <entry>Description</entry>
       <entry>Node to node</entry>
       <entry>Node to client</entry>
      </row>
     </thead>
     <tbody>
      <row>
       <entry>8091</entry>
       <entry>Web administration port</entry>
       <entry>Yes</entry>
       <entry>Yes</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>8092</entry>
       <entry>Couchbase API port</entry>
       <entry>Yes</entry>
       <entry>Yes</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>8093</entry>
       <entry>Used by query services for REST/HTTP traffic.</entry>
       <entry>Yes</entry>
       <entry>Yes</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>11207</entry>
       <entry>Internal/external bucket port for SSL</entry>
       <entry>No</entry>
       <entry>Yes</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>11209</entry>
       <entry>Internal bucket port</entry>
       <entry>Yes</entry>
       <entry>No</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>11210</entry>
       <entry>Internal/external bucket port</entry>
       <entry>Yes</entry>
       <entry>Yes</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>11211</entry>
       <entry>Client interface (proxy)</entry>
       <entry>No</entry>
       <entry>Yes</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>11214</entry>
       <entry>Incoming SSL proxy</entry>
       <entry>No</entry>
       <entry>No</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>11215</entry>
       <entry>Internal outgoing SSL proxy</entry>
       <entry>No</entry>
       <entry>No</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>18091</entry>
       <entry>Internal REST HTTPS for SSL</entry>
       <entry>No</entry>
       <entry>Yes</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>18092</entry>
       <entry>Internal CAPI HTTPS for SSL</entry>
       <entry>No</entry>
       <entry>Yes</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>4369</entry>
       <entry>Erlang port mapper (epmd)</entry>
       <entry>Yes</entry>
       <entry>No</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>21100 to 21199 (inclusive)</entry>
       <entry>Node data exchange</entry>
       <entry>Yes</entry>
       <entry>No</entry>
      </row>
     </tbody>
    </tgroup>
   </table>
   
   <p>
   </p>
   
    
   <p>
    A sample script for configuring the IP-tables firewall-settings is located in
    the following blog posting: <xref
     href="http://blog.couchbase.com/iptables-firewall-settings-couchbase-db-and-couchbase-mobile-syncgateway"
     format="html">IPTables Firewall Settings for Couchbase DB and Couchbase Mobile
     Sync_gateway</xref>
  </p>
   
  </section>
  
  <section>
   <title>
    Securing On-Disk Data
   </title>
   
   <p>
    Critical data-locations should be protected by means of <i>transparent data
     encryption</i> technologies; provided by 
    3rd party <i>on-disk encryption</i> software-vendors, such as Vormetric.
    For details, see 
    <xref href="./security-data-encryption.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Encryption
     at Rest</xref>. Also see
    the webinar provided at <xref
     href="http://www.couchbase.com/nosql-resources/webinar/recorded" format="html">Understanding
     Database Encryption with Couchbase and Vormetric</xref>. 
   </p>
   
  </section>
  
  
 </body>
</topic>
