<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="rbac_resources">
 
 <title>
  Resources Under Access Control
 </title>
 
 <shortdesc>
  Couchbase Server applies RBAC to a defined set of <i>resources</i>. The
  Couchbase Full Administrator can assign a <i>role</i> to a defined user; entailing
  read or read-write privilege either on an individual, named resource; or on
  all resources within a <i>resource-type</i> group.
 </shortdesc>
 
 <body>
  
  <section>
   
   <title>
    Access-Controlled Resources
   </title>
   
   <p>
    The following Couchbase Server-resources are always access-controlled:
   </p>
   
   <ul>
    <li>
     <b>Clusters</b>
     
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical space -->
      
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
    <li> 
     <b>XDCR Cluster References</b>
     
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical space -->
      
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
    <li>
     <b>FTS Index Aliases</b>
     
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical space -->
      
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
    <li>
     <b>System Catalogs</b>. Including:
     
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical space -->
      
     </p>
     
     <ul>
      
      <li>
       <codeph>system:datastores</codeph>
      </li>
      
      <li>
       <codeph>system:namespaces</codeph>
      </li>
      
      <li>
       <codeph>system:keyspaces</codeph>
      </li>
      
      <li>
       <codeph>system:indexes</codeph>
      </li>
      
      <li>
       <codeph>system:dual</codeph>
      </li>
      
      <li>
       <codeph>system:prepareds</codeph>
      </li>
      
      <li>
       <codeph>system:completed_requests</codeph>
      </li>
      
      <li>
       <codeph>system:active_requests</codeph>
      </li>
      
     </ul>
     
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical space -->
      
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
    <li>
     <b>Buckets</b>. Note that buckets have three independently access-controllable features, 
     each of which should be considered an individual resource-type:
     
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical space -->
      
     </p>
     
     <ul>
      <li>
       <b>Settings</b>: Includes <i>Bucket Type</i>, <i>Ejection Method</i>,
       <i>Conflict Resolution</i> method, <i>Protocol Port</i>, <i>Auto-Compaction</i>,
       and <i>Flush</i>. Also includes the abililty to compact and delete.
       
       <p>
        <!-- Vertical space -->
        
       </p>
       
      </li>
      
      <li>
       <b>Statistics</b>: Includes <i>ops</i>, <i>gets</i>, <i>sets</i>, and 
       <i>deletes</i> per second. Also includes information on memory-usage,
       disk-related activity, and status on indexing, querying, and XDCR
       activity. 
       
       <p>
        <!-- Vertical space -->
        
       </p>
       
      </li>
      
      <li>
       <b>Data</b>: Includes <i>data</i> and <i>meta-data</i> for all objects within
       a bucket. 
       
       <p>
        <!-- Vertical space -->
        
       </p>
       
      </li>
      
      
     </ul>
     
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical space -->
      
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
    
    <li>
     <b>XDCR Bucket Replication</b>
     
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical space -->
      
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
    
    <li>
     <b>Indexes</b>. Including <i>Views</i>, <i>Secondary</i> Global Secondary
     Indexes, and FTS <i>pindexes</i>.
     
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical space -->
      
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
    
   </ul>
   
   
  </section>
  
  <section>
   <title>
    Roles, Privileges, and Resource-Mappings
   </title>
   
   <p>
    Each Couchbase <i>role</i> entitles its bearer to either <i>read-only</i> or
    <i>read-write</i> privilege. A role may be associated with any
    of the following:
   </p>
   
   <ul>
    <li>
     An individual, named instance of a particular resource-type. For example, 
     data from a bucket named <i>foo</i>. Bucket-selection is made by
     the Full Administrator for the current Couchbase Server-cluster.
     
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical space -->
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
    <li>
     Multiple individual, named instances of a resource-type. For example, data
     from the individual
     buckets named <i>foo</i>, <i>bar</i>, and <i>baz</i>. Bucket-selection
     is made by the Full Administrator for the current Couchbase Server-cluster.
     
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical space -->
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
    <li>
     All existing resource-instances for a particular resource-type. For example, 
     data from all
     currently defined buckets might be selected by the Full Administrator
     for the Couchbase Server-cluster, by
     specifying the wildcard (<codeph>*</codeph>) character in association with the
     <b>Bucket</b> resource-type.
     
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical space -->
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
    <li>
     All existing resource-instances across a Couchbase-defined range of different
     resource-types. 
     
     <p>
      <!-- Vertical space -->
     </p>
     
    </li>
    
   </ul>
   
  </section>
  
 </body>
 
</topic>
